This is a special edition of Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and Tom Keane. Bloomberg
Surveillance, the Fed decides.
>> Live from New York City for our audience
worldwide. Here we go again for the
first time in 2026. The first rate
decision from the FOMC. That decision 27
minutes away. 30 minutes after that, a
news conference with Chairman Pal. And I
think it's fair to say TK the least
anticipated Fed meeting over the last 12
months taking the Kool-Aid. I disagree.
I said this morning, John, that you and
I know it's a snoozefest sometimes. No,
it's not. There's a frenzy here. And
just since you and I were on this
morning, we've seen Secretary Bessant
make a little bit more frenzy amid the
snooze.
>> A frenzy of the politics and maybe not
of the policy. In this news conference,
journalists will do their best to make
this interesting. the last chairman pow
about his more assertive confrontational
approach with the White House over the
past few weekends and TK we'll see if he
leans into the question as to whether
he's going to stick around beyond May.
>> Yeah, I do think the politics is there
and clearly the Waller descent is is
front and center here where I guess
we're going to get a descent from Mr.
Myron. I think
>> we had some two-way descent last with
him last time he was there. I didn't
think I was you got him out to six rate
cuts. I
>> I've got some respect for everyone on
the committee right now.
>> Very political.
>> Can I just say this?
>> Can I just say this and just throw this
out there? Governor Mron's taken a lot
of criticism.
>> Yes,
>> I think he's been very very successful
at galvanizing the rest of the committee
to come out publicly and say what they
think about where policy should be. And
I welcome a little bit more
transparency.
>> And if GDP comes in and not two rate
cuts, if you get three or dare I say
four, he's a genius if we get a four
rate cut trend.
>> Equities going into this one close to
all-time highs on the S&P 500. A slight
push back so far this afternoon. And
coming up shortly, we'll catch up with
Apollo's Thor and Sllock, Kathy Jones of
Charles Schwab, and Sockjen Sbajger
Jappa. Following the decision, the
former Fed vice chair Rich Clar, JP
Morgan's Bob Michael, Diane Swunk of
KPMG. And finally, we'll be breaking
down the news conference with Stephanie
Roth of Wolf Research and Black Rockck's
Jeffrey Rosenberg. We begin with Torston
SL of Apollo. Toss, good afternoon. Good
to see you.
>> Good afternoon.
>> What are you expecting to hear in about
an hour's time?
>> Well, on the rate decision itself, it
will be very clear. and name they will
say that they're now in wait and see
mode and they're basically waiting to
see what's happening on inflation
there's waiting to see what's happening
on employment so from a dual mandate
perspective they feel very comfortable
at this spot many of them have now
argued that we're very close to neutral
we're close to our star so for that
reason there is really no reason for
them to move rates in any way or signal
anything dramatic at this point
>> you were weaned in the continent on the
politics of central bank policy the
experiment of the ECB I I mentioned in
the frenzy in a light way during the
snoozefest but what we've seen the
disruption since John and Davos with
Secretary Besson the disruption that
we've seen for the last week and
particularly yesterday with the dollar
how does that change this moment for
Paul
>> well the dollar going down of course is
potentially something that has some
upside risk to inflation but at this
point it's still very early so for them
he may be asked about this today but my
best guess is that he will say this is
still very early and it's still very
modest so from a pure inflation
perspective Ive remember also that the
US is a closed economy. Exports are only
10% of GDP. For most European countries,
exports are like 50% of GDP. So from
that perspective, the dollar matters
actually less for the US inflation
relative to how much the euro matters
for inflation in the Euro area.
>> TK, I think we've got to get to the
elephant in the room and that's Torson's
big call for the year ahead. Do you
think that Wall Street is underplaying
just how hot GDP could be in the next
few quarters? Well, if you do go into
your Bloomberg screen and look at the
contentious expectations to growth, it
tells you that growth is expected for
the next 18 months to literally for
every single quarter be 2.0. That
happens to be exactly the potential
growth rate from the Congressional
Budget Office. In other words, there is
not much drama to the upside expected,
there's not much drama to the downside.
But if you begin to look at what
happened on January the 1st with the one
big beautiful bill being a tailwind, we
still have AI and data center built out.
That's a tailwind. We now also have the
dollar going down. That's also a
tailwind. And we also have oil prices
going down. That's also a tailwind. So
the risks are indeed beginning to rise
that we're going to see growth
accelerate as we go through this year.
So I do think that it is maybe laziness
on the forecasting community, but at
least it looks like from the forecast
that people are just penciling in 2.0,
meaning the long run growth rate.
>> Let me follow up because I don't want to
lose friends this afternoon either, but
it's Wall Street getting intellectually
lazy or they just struggling to price
the chaos.
>> Well, I do think that it's of course a
struggle to figure out both. Of course,
what policy changes have meant. we've
been through the last week or so also
some pretty significant changes on the
geopolitical front. So it is still very
uncertain in terms of what are the
implications when it comes to what's
coming with tariffs is more coming
what's coming with tariff uncertainty
are companies going to pull back because
there's more uncertainty but all that
aside I mean it still is the case that
if you take fiscal policy very
expansionary now you have the dollar
going down you have oil prices going
down and you still have a strong AI boom
with a data center and energy built out
those are all very strong tailwinds not
only to capex of course on its own
business fixed investment but also to
consumer spending so I would expect that
growth is going to be higher than what
the consensus is expecting at the
moment.
>> I'm not going to ask this of Vice
Chairman Clara. It's not what he does.
But I am going to ask you this. I want
you to frame out right now your call on
real GDP, the actual GDP number and the
inflation on top of it to get the
nominal GDP. If I take Atlanta and add
inflation, I got the United States
pretending it's China right now. 67%
nominal, 5.375
nominal published. Where are we going to
be in a year with a new chairman? real
inflation total nominal.
>> Absolutely. So the starting point for
that discussion is exactly that
inflation today is about three a little
bit less. It's not two which is where
the Fed is supposed to have inflation.
So that's why inflation is a little bit
too high already even before we begun to
see an acceleration. So that's why the
next several months what companies are
going to do especially in response to
the one big beautiful bill will be very
very critical because that may result in
that by the end of the year we could
have the nominal GDP could indeed to
your point Tom be a lot higher than what
people like. Well, let's take this over.
While you were in Davos at the piano bar
with Barry at Cloudfare, John, I was
reading Orz Posen, Peter Orzag, Lazard,
Adam Pos, and a giant at Peterson
Institute. You and I read the essay on a
persistent higher inflation that we're
not prepared for. That's how you get
there, isn't it? Off the wages they
model in their essay.
>> Absolutely. Peter Oxac and Adam Bosen
are heavy weights in the economics
profession. and them telling us that
inflation will be 4% by the end of the
year is something we need to take very
seriously because there is a compelling
story especially now when fiscal policy
is supporting and the AI and data set
boom is also very supportive so
absolutely there is indeed a chance that
normal GDP could be in the range of four
to five by the end of this year
>> just for the record I did not frequent
the piano bar this year that's TK's old
horn I'd always find him over there in
Davos Switzerland to do we have an
understanding as to how this Federal
Reserve would respond to information
like that Do you have a decent
understanding of this Federal Reserve's
reaction function?
>> No. Because the issue is that the dot
plot for now for a long long time has
been telling us rates are going down. So
the first regime change is that the dot
plot is going to now recognize that and
the market is going to recognize that
we're going to go up and maybe have no
cuts in the near future. And the biggest
risk is to Tom's point that if we do see
acceleration in growth and if Adam Posen
and Pete Osak are right, of course the
risks are beginning to rise, then we'll
see rates begin to go up. And this is
not a simple linear development. It is a
very significant change from after a
long long period of saying rates are
going down, rates are going down in the
front end. So now suddenly come to the
conclusion, well maybe the Fed actually
has to hike.
>> That's a key question, John, that you
just asked that reaction functions
plural. They don't have a clue. They're
flying and and I would I don't have a
clue either. They're flying blind.
>> That's why I think it's going to be so
difficult for the incoming Fed chair.
How unruly would this committee be June
onwards? Well, and the challenge is as
we all know, there are 12 voting
members. Seven are the governors.
There's five regional Fed presidents.
And if you are one of those voting
members, maybe together with Steve
Miran, you might say, I think interest
rates should go down. But think about
how this works in practice. You meet
with the Fed staff and the Fed staff,
they absolutely know what they're doing.
They have a forecast for inflation. So
if you go in and say, I think inflation
is going down, they will respond, well,
okay, where is that forecast coming
from? Which parts of inflation is going
down? And they will have an answer,
excuse me, that is going to be very,
very thorough that will tell you that
inflation
What's the experience with Trice? The
intellectual battle at the ECB with
JeanClaude Trice. Did the ECB push back
against the different decisions he
wanted to make that became
controversial?
>> Well, in this case, it's all about the
governors and also the regional Fed
presidents. They do have the view that
they think at the moment that rates
should be higher for longer because
inflation is higher for longer. It's
really quite simple for markets. If
inflation is higher for longer, the Fed
will also keep rates higher for longer
because we're not at 2% yet. Of course,
the staff of the Fed will now become
very important because the Fed staff of
course will be sticking likely with what
they've been putting out for the last 12
months, namely that inflation is still a
problem. That's the forecast that we saw
of course in the latest print from the
ACP. But the bottom line to your
question is if there is a change in the
forecast, it will have to come from the
Fed staff and so from the Fed chairman.
>> Is this too high brow today? No, I think
it's
>> Let's get B this.
>> What's wrong with this? I think it's
>> No, this is basic. This is the problem.
There's a lot of people looking at this
and they're talking about their wife and
they're going, "I took her to the
supermarket. I don't know why, but I had
to start it somewhere. Pretend you got
no money." Half of America, John, feels
like that British song from years ago.
>> Common People by Pope and it's fantastic
song. By the way, we're talking about
GDP being skyhigh. Consumer confidence
in this country is the worst it's ever
been in the last decade. Just think
about everything that's happened in the
last 10 years. Consumer confidence
hasn't been worse. TK the conference
board number is absolutely remarkable.
>> I agree. I I I this the it's not a
snoozefest that everyone you have to
stay with us today. It's not a
snoozefest.
>> Is that just to keep the audience
>> plus clarity is coming by you know
>> true and to stick in with us. It's going
to be absolutely fantastic. Coming up as
well we'll catch up with Kathy Jones of
Charles Swap Sebappa of Sockgen. That
Fed decision is about 18 minutes away.
Your equity market just pulling back
from alltime highs on the S&P 500. In
the bond market, yields up by a single
basis point. In FX near to multi-year
lows for the US dollar and gold at all
time highs. More still to come on the
markets in just a moment.
The Fed's in no hurry to cut rates.
>> They're pretty comfortable pausing here.
We're likely to see the Fed pause.
>> The Fed's likely not cutting.
>> We think they'll hold. Stay on hold.
>> They're in a holding pattern.
>> It's time to take a breath on these rate
cuts.
>> There isn't really a need for immediate
movements in in interest rates. I don't
think they want to move. They're
probably towards the tail end of this
rate cutting cycle. Hopefully, we see a
little bit more guidance from the Fed.
>> It'll be a doubish meeting even though
it won't cut.
>> The Feds are going to remain data
dependent. Powell is going to stick with
the hard data.
>> We have been dancing around these
threats uh to independence.
>> The Fed is going to be under enormous
pressure.
>> Everybody wants an independent Fed. Put
their head down, do their job. That's
the best way that they can can
demonstrate that independence.
>> The Fed decision 15 minutes away. The
scores into it look like this this
afternoon on the S&P 500. A slight pull
back from record highs. We've gone 5
days with no losses on the S&P. Will
these losses stick in the bond market?
Twos anchored around to where Fed funds
is right now. Let's call it 360 on a
2-year 10 in a range of 410 to 430 for
the year so far. 426 at the moment and
up a single basis point where the fun
and games have been over the last week.
The drama, the fireworks, the headlines
in foreign exchange. Euro dollar1921 for
a heartbeat. Euro dollar was north of
120. And what happened? An ECB member TK
pushed back against where the euro was
and talked up the prospect of acting if
this move continues.
>> That's the game theory of this. And
you've got a neo mercantalist president
and I don't think he understands the
game theory of how they'll push back. We
mentioned Adam Posen earlier. William
Klein at Peterson owns the high ground
on this. They push back.
>> What do you make of the sell America
trade? Seen this headline repeatedly.
Sal America. People are selling America
every time we have a bit of dollar.
>> You know where I am on this. This
>> tell me share it. I got views. I got
views to him. Set myself.
>> I got this. I was down in Houston with a
CFA institute and somebody said the same
uh thing as well. I think it's the
craziest thing going. We have led on
technology. I'm going to get emotional
here. I remember the day the three
astronauts died at at at Cape Canaveral.
I remember clear is a bell. We had the
technology then. It's different now.
We're not going Well, excuse me, Mr.
Musk. I know you're listening. We're not
going to the moon, but we're there with
AI and technology. We're leading the way
and everybody else.
>> I'm pleased we get to talk about this,
TK, because some of the price action we
have seen is also consistent with the
pickup in global risk appetite. If you
see the Cosby at record highs and up 20%
for the year, the Aussie outperforming
in G10, copper at a record as well.
Small caps domestically outperforming
large. Doesn't that just speak to a
better growth pickup domestically and
internationally?
>> You know, we made a joke about the
British song from Pulp here about the
groceries. There's half of America flat
on her back looking for two or three
rate cuts now to relieve them. I'm not
sure those rate cuts relieve them.
>> Kathy Jones swab joins us now. We're
going to get into this Fed action. That
decision is about 13 minutes away. News
conference 30 minutes after that. Kathy,
let's get into the decision. Most people
assume no change any nuance in the
statement you'll be looking for.
>> Um in the statement you might see some
adjustment to what they said about
inflation. uh maybe that it is you know
has stabilized uh but still elevated and
slight tweak there to the statement.
Don't expect much else uh because you
know frankly there's no logic to making
a change at this stage of the game. So I
doubt that there will be a big change to
the statement. Kathy, one thing I've
watched in the last 72 hours with the
dollar dynamics and as John mentions
commodities is the real yield,
particularly the 10-year real yield just
as a benchmark has been very quite
essent. What does that mean to you that
the inflation adjusted yield has stayed
stable in a tight range?
Yeah, it I think that there's some
influence here of um kind of the the
stability provided by the Fed now, the
expectation of a steady policy. You do
have um the 40 billion in a month that
they're injecting into the system. I
think some of that is also reflective of
just uncertainty. We we don't have a a
really clear vision of where we're going
from here. I I think there's this this
hope for this productivity surge to
continue. There's hope at the same time
that we're going to get, you know, a a
big boost in the economy from fiscal
policy, which seems logical. And yet
there doesn't seem to be the market
pricing in a huge uh risk of inflation
going forward. And and so I think the
markets are sort of sitting here, the
real yield sitting here and and kind of
trying to figure out where to go. Well,
and Kathy, given that uncertainty, why
do you think the S&P continues to make
all-time highs, including today?
>> Well, the good thing is, uh, Thor, I
don't do equities, but I will say that
the financial conditions are very easy.
Um, when you look at where we are in
financial conditions, um, credit spreads
are very tight, corporate profits are
near record highs, and the Fed's bias,
at least from the dot plot, is towards
easing. um and a softer dollar. I I
would say that all kind of adds up to a
pretty good environment for the stock
market.
>> Yeah, it's important here. Kevin Gordon
had the best tweet out of Schwab
yesterday. Kathy took the day off and
Kevin Gordon said, "You know what?
January feels like it's nine weeks
long." That's the wall of worry that
makes equities go up. I believe that's
what Miss Saunders would say.
>> Nine weeks is kind. This feels like
about a year. Yeah. Take care at the
moment. Kathy, what's remarkable to me
so far is just how stable until very
recently rangebound, the 10-year bond
yield has been in the face of all the
risk, not just domestically, but
internationally as well. Torsson's
talking up the prospect of strong GDP
growth for the year ahead, maybe even
inflation closer to four, never mind
two, and we're trading at 425 on tens.
What gives?
>> Yeah, I think all the um and I agree
with you. I I think the yield should be
moving higher. We have seen a steepening
in the yield curve and that's really
kind of our big call uh for the year
actually since last year is a steeper
yield curve on the assumption that the
economy outperforms expectations.
inflation doesn't come down as
anticipated or not as quickly as
anticipated and that uh the risk from
the Fed is particularly with the changes
taking place is that it it acts on an
easing bias rather than um holding
steady for longer. I think right now the
market has uh steady policy priced in
you know well into the middle of the
year. If you get a new Fed chair coming
in or some rotation of the members
that's that's unexpected due to all
these lawsuits, you could probably see a
push for easier policy sooner rather
than later. And that I think would start
to get um yields moving higher at the
longer end.
>> Tolston, that's my headline of the year
so far. It's not sell America. It's the
fact that people haven't really been
selling treasuries in the face of
everything we're discussing. Why are
treasuries so stable in the face of all
the risk that you're thinking about?
Well, because there's worries now. If
the Fed is telling me that short end
rates are going down, when many people
are worried about, well, maybe that
means that there is a slowdown in growth
coming. But if you begin to add up
fiscal policy, AI boom, lower dollar,
lower oil, then you do come to the
conclusion that maybe those trends will
be reversing the Fed's view. And that's
why the wait and see mode that they're
in today is very important. And that's
why the communication from Powell about
monetary policy will be very critical.
Will he begin to signal that there is
indeed some upside risks as we're
talking about here? Do you think yields
end the year closer to five than four?
>> Uh, so I do think that 10ear rates at
the moment are driven by of course the
fiscal challenges, but it's certainly
also driven by Fed expectations. So if
Fed expectations are indeed that rates
are not going to move much in the front
end for the rest of this year, well then
I do think that there is a chance that
long end rates could be higher.
>> John, your good question here and I'm
going to take this from Orzag and Posen.
What's the single catalyst that changes
this dialogue? And the answer is it's
wage dynamics. inflationadjusted wages
and nominal wages. If you get a wage
pop, everything changes in this disc.
>> I'll tell you one thing, Tom. So far,
it's not Tokyo. To have the convulsions
we had in JGB's just last week, and for
that to only engineer a six, seven,
eight basis point move at the long end
of the US curve. I was surprised by
that. If you told me we'd move by 20 to
30 basis points at the long end of the
Japanese curve, see yields we've never
seen before in Japan, I would have
expected a bigger move last week in
treasuries than the one we got. And you
did see yesterday at this 40-year
auction in JGBs that actually that was
very solid demand telling you that we're
getting to the point where investors are
interested in the levels of yield that
>> asking for a friend. Did Apollo load the
boat?
>> I don't think he's going to answer that
one. Sebatra Jaffragen M. Sebatra,
welcome to the program. The stability in
bonds so far. What shakes us out of this
recent range?
>> I don't think there's a clear catalyst
to be honest with you. I think that what
shook us out last week was in fact the
selloff in in JGB yields. We did see a
pretty dramatic sell-off. Yes,
treasuries outperformed JGBs in the
sell-off, but for the most part part
that was the only catalyst. I mean,
there are other dynamics that were
missing in in the bigger equation,
right? It's the fact that the Fed has
been buying a lot of Treasury bills.
there's been a lot more issuance in the
very front end of the year curve and
then in the long end coupon issuances
are are expected to remain stable for
the remainder of the year. So you're
looking at a very somewhat you know
stable fiscal situation from a coupon
issuance perspective because a lot of
the issuances coming in bills and that's
keeping a lid on term premia in the US
and 10ear yields as a result of that I
think are somewhat rangebound. The
history uh Subadra of Sakchen is to
really have a pulse on what the bet is
on global Wall Street. Is there a bet on
this meeting right now?
>> Not really. I think that the expectation
is is very consensus that the Fed is
probably going to keep policy on hold.
And if anything, the market seems to be
continuing to push back on the timing of
the next easing. We're almost have no
cuts priced in until June of of this
year. And there's just a lot of
uncertainty. And really, you know, in
some respects, it feels like the Fed's
job is actually quite easy because
you're looking at a pretty strong growth
trajectory. We know somewhat where
inflation is. The markets are extremely
confused in figuring out what the Fed is
going to do as well as navigating a lot
of the uncertainty. And it feels
especially that the bond market feels
like it's a cart in the headlights, if
you will, not knowing where to go from
here.
>> Have we priced in a new chairman?
Um, no, because we have no information.
I mean, it seems to be a moving target.
We've been discussing this for a better
part of the last six months and we still
don't know who the next Fed chair is
going to be. And there's a good chance
that we don't get any clarity by the end
of the month, which is kind of was was
my at least deadline for when we would
get an announcement. And it looks like
it could drag on well into into maybe
even uh, you know, closer to May when
Fed Chair Powell's term ends. So, this
uncertainty is definitely here to stay.
I think the senator from North Carolina,
TK, has given us a decent steer on just
how long this will take. He spoke to us
in the last week and he's communicating
pretty clearly that it's about the
process and not the man for him. It
doesn't matter who they nominate until
we wrap up this mess with the DOJ at the
Federal Reserve. He's not going to even
entertain confir confirming whoever they
nominate down at the White House. I
>> I'll go with that. And I'll also go with
the idea just here, are we going to have
a shutdown on Friday? I mean, are you
and I have a different script on Monday?
>> My goodness. Let's hope not. I don't
think any of us want to go through that
again. So bad, let's talk about the
data, the substance, these conversations
about all these other things. There's a
reason we're not talking about rate cuts
today. And one of the reasons is the
labor market data of the last month or
so, a pickup in payrolls, a decline in
unemployment. How much weight would you
put on the recent jobs data?
>> It's a very important indicator. Again,
the the data has been somewhat muddy,
but if you look at the initial jobless
claims, you know, to you know, coming
into the year, we we kind of discounted
the the very very low claims number
saying that it was seasonal. But beyond
the the normal seasonality, claims have
been very very low. And you're looking
at a job market that's, you know, seems
to be somewhat rebounding, if you will.
Yes. Uh, for the most part, if you look
at the unemployment rate, it's been it's
been kind of trending lower. The the
labor market is extraordinarily tight.
So, uh, to me it feels like with three
preemptive rate cuts last year, it feels
like the job market has not only
stabilized, but it's also showing signs
of improvement.
>> That's an important insight that there's
three already done. That's got to be
what 12 seconds into the press
conference. He points that out.
>> I think it's probably right at the top
maybe, Tom. Right at the top. Sadra,
thank you. Sebra Japper alongside Kathy
Jones. The decision about 3 minutes
away. Toss. Are you confident we've seen
the last rate cut from Chairman Pal?
Well, at least at the moment, it's very
clear that the data does not justify
rate cuts. So, from that perspective,
they can certainly go out and explain
very clearly. We still have inflation
that's too high. We have a labor market
that's still okay. And let's not forget
that average earnings in the latest
print actually went up. And we're
beginning to see some of the leading
indicators from the Fed for wage growth
actually beginning to move higher. And
if at the same time restrict immigration
as dramatically has been done over the
last 12 months, you should not be
surprised if wage growth does begin to
move a little bit higher over the next
several months. This sounds like an
extended pause. So, let me ask you this.
The next move after that, a cut or a
hike?
>> Well, I do still think that we are at
the bottom of the Nike swoosh and
therefore growth getting better becomes
a discussion around well is growth going
to get so good that we will begin to see
inflation move higher. At this point, I
think that there are just so many
headwinds to begin to talk about rate
hikes. So, they will be very very
hesitant to do that. He will certainly
not be entertaining that idea today. But
you think maybe ultimately that
>> well because fiscal policy remember the
CBO says that if one big bill for bill
will lift GDP by 0.9% GDP is normally
two. So that means that roughly half of
GDP growth this year is coming from
fiscal expansion alone while we at the
same time have the AI and data center
boom in the background. There are some
very good stories and reasons to believe
that we could begin to see growth
accelerate as we go through this year
and that could by the middle of the year
get to a situation where they will have
to begin to talk about rate hikes. to
slot. Can you imagine the new Fed chair
going onto the committee, nominated by
this White House, entertaining a
conversation at the end of the year
about interest rate hikes?
>> Well, that's why that is such a
difficult thing because that person has
to go in together with the other voting
members. There are 12 voting members in
total. This is just one vote and you
need to convince the others and the Fed
staff of what you think about is the
inflation outlook. And therefore, that
will be definitely data dependent and
data driven. We need to see inflation go
up and then we'll begin to have
discussions about temporary transitory.
What is the reason why inflation
continues to be so sticky which is what
the consensus continues to expect.
>> Just imagine the drama down in the
nation's capital in Washington DC if any
of that materializes. Tossen sl of
Apollo is going to stick with us. The
decision is about 45 seconds away. The
equity market is just off alltime highs
on the S&P 500. So far this year we have
had tremendous outperformance on the
Russell. Small caps underperforming this
afternoon. The outperformance from big
tech. The Nasdaq up by 4/10en of 1%. The
attention turns to the NASDAQ a little
bit later on this afternoon when we get
earnings from Microsoft and earnings
from Meta. The attention at the moment
very much on the Federal Reserve. In the
bond market, 2-year bond yields anchored
around 350 to 360, 358. Yields up by not
even a basis point on tens of 42532 up a
single basis point. As we kept saying,
the drama, the fireworks and headlines
have been in the FX market with a dollar
trading very close to multi-year lows.
It's a Fed decision seconds away.
Unchanged is the expectation. With the
call is Mike McK.
>> Well, pretty much as expected, John, no
change in rates and the Fed leaves open
the option of cutting rates in the
future. Steven Myron and Chris Waller
descent in favor of a rate cut. Michelle
Bowman does not. Waller's descent, of
course, could be read as an effort to
retain his place as a finalist to
replace J. Pal later this year. The
statement keeps the line about
considering the extent and timing of
additional adjustments to the target
range, suggesting more rate cuts are
possible. There's no hint, however, of
what that would lead them to do that or
when. The economic assessment is very
short and relative to recent stations
right slightly positive. Available
indicators suggest that economic
activity has been expanding at a solid
pace. It says job gains have remained
low and the unemployment rate has shown
some signs of stabilization. Inflation
remains somewhat elevated. The officials
say uncertainty about the economic
outlook remains elevated, but they don't
emphasize jobs as they have the last
three statements or inflation as the
major concern. The committee is
attentive to the risks to both sides of
its dual mandate. The statement says the
open market desk at the New York Fed is
again told to maintain an ample level of
reserves by buying treasury bills or if
necessary maturities of up to 3 years or
less. It's all about as plain vanilla as
you can get, which shifts the focus, of
course, to chairman Powell's news
conference at the bottom of the hour.
What does he say about the future of
interest rates and what does he say
about his future as a member of the Fed?
Stay tuned.
>> Mike McKe, we will stay tuned. The news
conference about 28 minutes away. You
run into that Mike McKe there. World
class as always. A Fed decision
unchanged. The vote interesting 10 to2
to hold race steady. The two Governor
Myron and Governor Waller TK. Is it
unfair to describe the Governor Waller
descent as an audition to take the top
job at the Federal Reserve?
>> 1991 is classic paper on game theory. I
just think we saw a little Waller game
theory uh going on to say uh the least.
I don't have a strong opinion on it, but
definitely uh that's a setup for the
president to make a Waller decision.
>> This has been an individual Torston who
has provided thought leadership on this
committee, effective thought leadership
now for a number of years. That descent
will be described by many in this market
as an audition for the top job at the
Federal Reserve. Is that unfair?
>> I think it is a bit unfair. I mean Chris
is very very steady and stable and has
had his whole career as a PhD economist
doing research going after data being
data dependent. So I do view this mainly
as a sign that he actually is worried
and his speeches have also given very
clear indication of this. He is actually
truly worried about that the labor
market might be signaling that things
are about to get worse. So I think it's
a little bit unfair to put him into that
category because I do think that it's
very important that he is telling us
that he does believe that rates should
have been cut today.
>> Is that worry about the jobs market
justified by the data you look at?
>> Well, that's the discussion. I happen to
have the view that this is all because
of labor supply being much lower.
Immigration used to be three million a
year. Now it's about 400,000 from the
CBO. So with labor supply is lower, you
should also expect job growth to be
lower. Other people including Chris put
more put more weight on labor demand. So
that's the debate at the moment. Yes,
there has been very little hiring,
little very little firing suggesting
that labor demand is indeed also weak.
So this is the very important debate and
of course only the data over the next
several months will tell whether this
descent was actually a good idea or not.
John, for the press conference and for
Vice Chairman Clara, Fed omits language
on downside risks to employment having
risen. Let's have a chat with some
Amazon people this morning. Let's talk
to UBS this morning. The mail I get, the
mail you get. People think fancy guys
like Torsten Slack are nuts when they
talk about a fully employed America.
>> I don't want to overdo the data that
comes from the conference board because
consumer's confidence all over the place
right now is skewed by a whole bunch of
things including politics. But attitudes
to the labor market. When people turn
around to your tours and they say right
now it's getting harder to get a job.
Jobs are not plentiful. You have to take
notice, don't you?
>> Absolutely. It is absolutely the case
that the labor market data has become
slower in terms of job growth. But what
is really critical here to remember is
that if you have much fewer immigrants
going from 3 million to 400,000 a year,
of course, that's also going to create
the break even rate for non-farm
payrolls that's a lot lower. That used
to be 200,000 a year. Now the Fed says
it's about 30,000. So the closer you get
to zero of course the more this will
also begin to have more worries among
people whether can I find a job can I
not find a job and those worries of
course in sentiment are exactly showing
up that in particular the lower leg of
the K continues to be under significant
distress
>> the Federal Reserve keeping rates
unchanged if you are just tuning in as
expected equities on the S&P 500 just a
little bit lower just off alltime highs
on the S&P 500 two descents looking for
a 25 basis point reduction one from
Governor Myron another from Governor a
wallala. Joining us now, a man who knows
a little something about how this
committee makes decisions, the former
Fed vice chair, Richard Clarida. Rich,
welcome to the program, sir. What do you
make of this decision and what are you
looking for from the news conference in
25 minutes time?
>> You know, it's as expected pretty
minimal changes to the statement. If
anything, as you mentioned though,
changing in the wording about the the
the labor market. I thought it was a
close call going in whether or not we
would see Governor Waller or Vice Chair
Bowman descent. In the end, we did get
the disscent from Chris Waller. I agree
with Torston who was on earlier. You
know, Chris is a good economist. He's
been consistent and had a good call on
the labor market and inflation and and
he's made the case in many speeches uh
that uh there is a case to get rates
down down to neutral. So, I take him at
his word on that. In terms of in terms
of the press conference, uh obviously no
SCP uh projections or uh the like. Um,
and I think the the reporters will be
pressing the chair on what message they
should take away from from this in terms
of the remainder of the year.
>> When you look at the politics here, I'm
hesitant to say chairman Clarative, but
is this a moment where the president
goes outside the chosen four candidates?
>> You know, there has been this
speculation in door number uh five.
There was the reporting this morning.
Uh, you know, I know each of the
candidates, I think any of them would be
a good choice. They bring strengths to
the the job, but uh there are a lot of
moving parts when you're Fed uh chair
and so it'll be interesting to see who
they finally select.
>> You and I remember the day where Phil
Graham went after Allen Greenspan on
foreign exchange. Richard Clar, is it
appropriate that a Fed chairman speak of
dollar dynamics, particularly the
whipssaw of president weak dollar and
secretary of treasury strong dollar?
>> Great question as usual, Tom. you know,
never say never, but both as a policy
maker and as a student of policym, uh,
the Fed tries to stay out of any and all
discussions about exchange rates, and I
would expect Jay Pal today, if he's
asked that question, to do the to do the
to do the same.
>> So, Rich, when you think about yield
curve dynamics, I mean, what is your
view on what the yield curve will do?
The consensus has the view that it will
steepen. Is that also your view or do
you think front-end rates will stay
stable and long rates will also stay
stable or how do you think about the
curve at the moment?
>> Yeah. No, hi Toorston. I you know what's
been remarkable is really um since
either going back to the last hike which
was all the way back in 23 or the first
cut uh in in 2024. The 10-year Treasury
has been in a range from roughly four
and 3/4 to 3 and 3/4. Uh a lot's
happened in that intervening period. um
that importantly reflects much higher
real rates uh than we had uh pre uh
pandemic. So you have seen a shift up in
the curve relative to pre- pandemic and
yes uh would expect the curve to
continue to steepen uh over time as 10
years stay in that range and as
front-end rates uh come down under the
new chair. Rich, as you identify a range
impressively stable so far for you and
the team at PIMCO, Rich, what's behind
what's the biggest pillar of that
stability that we've seen over the past
few months at the long end of the curve?
>> Well, I think we it reflects the new
dynamics both because potentially a
faster productivity growth and and
fiscal uh concerns. It's appropriate
that longerdated real yields are higher
than they were before. I think that's an
important uh fact of life. I mean the
real debate and the real issue is you
know within the Fed and in the markets
is you know where is the neutral rate
where where do front-end rates uh end up
and we we still think that neutral for
the funds rate is somewhere down around
three uh uh percent uh but obviously
that's going to depend on where we are
uh in the cycle as well.
And this may be an unfair question,
Rich, but I mean, do you think an
incoming Fed chair is going to make
dramatic changes to the Fed staff in
terms of who is head of which
departments, or how do you think the
incoming chair might think about things
if he or she doesn't think that it's
likely that interest rates are going to
be coming down because of persuading the
committee?
>> You know, I'm not I'm not sure about uh
that. It is important just for the
public to know that that the board staff
does report to the uh chair. You know,
during my time there, Chair Pal asked me
to get very much involved with the
staff, and I learned a lot from uh them.
Uh but uh it's I I think there typically
have been and and always will be changes
in staff. People get promoted, people uh
moved on, and I should say during my
time at the Fed, the the senior staff I
worked with was incredibly uh uh
capable. So, uh I don't think there'll
be any issues there. Torston Slack I
think it's so important that we describe
the academics of Richard Clare to all
that he did with this fancy thing
dynamics stochastic general equilibrium
theory and monetary policy John
mentioned earlier do we know the
reaction functions do you have an
operative theory from the world of
Richard clar now that's operational
>> well rich is well famous for the credit
multiply and the work he did with Benke
and of course what credit markets have
been doing and what credit markets are
doing is often very critical of course
for the economy because if credit
conditions begin to tighten the economy
has a problem if credit conditions begin
to loosen. Of course, the economy could
also have a problem. Namely, that it
just becomes too easy money including in
credits.
>> And John, conversation after
conversation, the assumption is credit
markets are going to loosen because we
have maybe it's Biden like stimulus. I
believe the next 6 months we're full
bore ahead.
>> The credit spreads are very tight and
now the dollar is weakening. And when
you think about the dollar's influence
on financial conditions more broadly,
Torston, what is the contribution that
comes through the FX channel? Well, what
I think is very important to remember is
that foreigners come to the US for two
reasons. They come to cut coupons in
fixed income because yield levels are
higher here and they come to get
exposure to AI. So for any discussion
for talks about well with the dollar
begin to go down, you need to come with
a view that either AI is going to roll
lower or interest rates are going to be
a lot lower. So as long as you can cut
coupons and get much higher returns in
US assets, you will still have
foreigners abroad in Europe, Japan,
Canada, Australia who come to the US to
buy US financial assets because they
simply do offer higher returns than what
you get in most other countries.
>> Foreign holdings of treasuries at the
end of last year, close to the end of
last year, record highs. People hardly
talk about that, do they?
>> Well, and if you go back and look at the
tick data for net foreign purchases of
US assets, you saw that in April of last
year during liberation day, things were
absolutely chaotic. it was indeed the
case that the rest of the world was sell
America but since April for the data we
now have from May up until November it
was very very strong inflow of data into
rates in particular credit and also of
course into equities
>> if you are just tuning in welcome to the
program about 10 minutes ago the Federal
Reserve leaving interest rates unchanged
two votes for a 25 basis point reduction
from Governor Waller and from governor
my a news conference with chairman pow
in about 20 minutes time we've got the
former Fed vice chair Richard Clara
standing by just for one more question
Richard I want to come to you on this an
important topic because the chairman
will be asked about this in the news
conference. I have no doubt of that. A
more confrontational approach, a more
assertive approach from the chairman a
few weekends ago towards the White
House. Rich, what do you think prompted
that? How much internal debate was there
about it?
>> You know, I'm not sure. I guess we'll
have to wait for J. Pal's memoir uh to
uh to find out. I just infer uh that the
chair made the uh decision. uh he'd
been, you know, he had been quiet and
had really not uh weighed in uh in the
past. And I think he just made a
decision that he he wanted it to be
known that that he felt that the Fed
needed to focus on independence and
focus on making the judgments on
monetary uh policy
any color beyond that. Uh we'll have to
wait for the memoir.
>> Rich, do you think it's made it harder
to focus on monetary policy, though?
I really don't think I don't think so.
In in light of of all the things that
are that are going on, I I think it was
a very clear a very clear indication
that for the remainder of his term as as
chair, you know, that will be the will
be the focus.
>> Richard Clara, thank you, sir. As
always, the former Fed vice chair Rich
Clara, we have no doubt the chairman
will be asked about that issue in about
20 minutes time. Joining us now to
extend a conversation, Bob Michael of JP
Morgan Asset Management. Bob, you've
always got your own questions, buddy.
What do you want to hear from the
chairman in the next hour?
>> Well, the the question he's not going to
answer is does he intend to stay on if
after his chair um expires? But I think
the one to ask is what does he see in
the labor market that's particularly
wearing to him? And is the Fed
undergoing studies about what the
broader impact of AI will be across the
economy?
>> Bob, Michael, you look at the key
question that you mentioned is labor. We
mentioned this earlier off Orzag and
Posen recently. Does your team at JP
Morgan see any form of wage dynamic that
indicates inflation?
Um, not so much right now. I I think
this low higher low fire um has really
dampened wage gains quite a bit. We'll
see what happens in the first half of
the year. Certainly expectations are
pretty good for the economy and
corporate spending. Maybe that will lead
to higher wages, but right now you're
not seeing evidence of that.
>> I really can't emphasize enough folks
that phrase there to see into the middle
of the year. Then Bob Michael with that
with an interest rate strategy and given
all the upset at the Fed, how far out is
the Bob Michael vision at JP Morgan, can
you get out to Q3 or dare I say model
out a fixed income portfolio to 2027?
>> Um, you can and you have to. who can't
invest a lot of assets without having
some view on the short-term, the
medium-term, and the longer term. Right
now, things look pretty good. Um, on
Monday, I said that the yield curve
looked about as perfectly priced as you
could have it. So does the bond market.
It seems to incorporate reasonably good
economic activity this year. It seems to
incorporate what we think could be
disinflationary forces coming from both
the headwinds of tariffs on spending and
also the impact of AI it's sort of an
ideal market um for bonds including
credit
>> well and to the issue about AI given AI
is so prominent in the equity market and
now AI is also becoming a bigger weight
in the public IG index and by the way AI
is also hugely in venture capital
two-thirds of venture capital is AI how
do you think about the construction
structionction of portfolios at the
moment when you suddenly have when you
look holistically at asset allocation
one factor namely AI that is everywhere
>> well we we've seen a lot of sectors in
the past um access the markets for a lot
of funding and the lesson from that is
to wait until the supply starts to weigh
on prices and that's your opportunity to
go in um I think what we do understand
is there's an enormous need of capital
because there's an enormous productive
use for it to build the infrastructure
that's going to power everything. What
we do see at JP Morgan Chase is every
line of business is using AI and how it
operates and it is creating a lot of
efficiencies. It allows us to scale um
very very efficiently. So, it's not
going away. Um it only seems to be
accelerating.
>> Yeah, Bob, I want to build on this. I
think it's really important and I say
this a little tongue and cheek but
ultimately a big factor behind the GDP
growth of the last 12 months is the
capex spend of a handful of companies is
that becoming the more important macro
indicator never mind payrolls is what
happens after the close today from Meta
Microsoft and what we hear from the big
tech players over the next week
>> um I think so because they're not only
telling us how their businesses look
they're telling us how every other
business looks and how every other
business is thinking about AI and are
they willing to invest more there? I
think we're going to find the answer is
yes. That everyone's over the hump. They
see this as real. They've lagged a
little bit. Why shouldn't they? They
were unsure about the impact of tariffs.
They were unsure how AI would play out.
Now that seems to be in the rear view
mirror. Um I think you are going to see
pretty good earnings and pretty good um
downra forecasts. Tustin, this is one of
the great dilemmas I think for monetary
policy makers officials worldwide right
now. The divide between GDP and payrolls
growth. GDP is fantastic. Payroll's
growth is super subdued and you can
point to supply side factors like
immigration. That's a factor. Sure. But
the character of GDP is becoming less
and less labor intensive based on what
we've seen over the last 12 months.
>> Absolutely. And a very important point
when we talk about the Fed is that that
also is because we simply have that the
forces that are driving GDP are actually
not very interest sensitive because most
of the forces that have been driving the
boom in AI and the energy buildout have
been coming because of equity valuations
being so high. Now there's more in the
change in the capital structure towards
also more debt issuance. But for the
last several years, no matter what the
Fed funds rate did, we had a really
strong boom in AI and that was driving
the economy forward and continues to
drive the economy forward because this
strength is coming from sources that are
much less interest rate sensitive than
traditional components of GDP.
>> Let's get a source on this. Torson
Sllock this morning. It was good to see
you up before 9:00 a.m. Torstston. This
is his daily note, the daily spark. Bob
Michael quantifying the productivity
gains from AI. I would say it's JP
Morgan with what is it? It's like
Walmart, 2 million employees in the US.
You people have more knowledge, Bob
Michael, about the new use of AI. Help
Dr. Slack out. How are our productivity
gains from AI?
>> Well, the aspiration is that you're
growing and you can do a lot more with
the same amount of resource. So, that's
the ambition and the aspiration. We're
still early into it. We'll see what the
payback is down the road.
>> I mean, I look at this tors and please
expand on on this productivity and I
guess it comes down to solo in this
strange thing total factor productivity
which is basically a madeup pixie dust
of that like John you mentioned earlier
that American spirit. What does our
total factor American spirit look like
right now?
>> Absolutely. GDP growth can come from
three sources. Capital, labor and
productivity. And the key issue is if
productivity is strong that can more
than dominate the other forces of growth
especially when labor is now
contributing less because immigration is
being restricted. So that means that the
requirements coming from total factor
productivity or productivity are really
significant because that needs to
deliver a lot of growth now that we have
less growth coming from the labor side.
>> This is why it's hard to sell America.
So many of these reasons are just a long
list of things as to why it's hard to
sell America. Bob, the headlines of the
last week or so, not just the last week,
but the last 12 months. Do you push back
against them as well, Bob?
>> Yeah, they're total hogwash. We invest
money for loads of different plans
around the world. This time last year
into March, April of last year, maybe
through the summer, there was some
concern. There were plans that were
looking at diversifying. We saw very
little of it. We're not seeing any of
that now. I think there's a realization
that the breadth, the depth, the size of
the markets in the US make it the best
place to exercise your fiduciary duty
and that's what they're seeing. Yeah. Is
there some currency hedging going on on
the side? A little bit. But is there a
wholesale sell America assets?
Absolutely not. If it's happening, we're
not seeing it. And we pretty much see
everything. You know, Bob, I I I'm
thinking of University of Pennsylvania
and you know, you're in Latin class at
Pennsylvania where you got straight A's
and you know, you look at hogwash is nug
or futila or in epsia. I'm butchering
the pronunciation here, but stay with me
on this. Bob, is there hogwash among the
administration? Bob, Michael, you're a
bond guy. I want you to help me with
foreign exchange in Bruce Casman's
world. I got one day it's a weak dollar
policy. I got the next day a strong
dollar policy. It sounds like it's time
for Secretary Diamond.
>> I think he's doing a great job where he
is and I hope he stays there.
>> What a way to end an interview. Bob,
thank you, sir. Bob Michael of JP Morgan
Asset Management staying out of trouble.
Hogwash. Hogwash. That's what he thinks
of those.
>> But that's that's brilliant and you hear
it in your your wonderful morning note
as well. People are so frustrated by the
spin that they're getting given the
cacophony of our American politics and
all.
>> You know, a long time ago, Tom, at the
president's first term, Mark Dow wrote a
great piece on divorcing your political
bias from your market analysis. And I
think there are reasons to be worried
about diversifying away from the dollar.
And I'm not going to color everyone who
has that opinion with the same brush,
but I will say this. I think some of
this is being driven by people who just
don't like the policy out of the White
House. Torston and dare I say they have
a bit of TDS. I do think some of that is
coloring some of the analysis that's
coming from not just Wall Street but
from research desks around the world.
>> Absolutely. And you go around Europe and
you talk to a lot of people who are of
course saying oh my god what's going on?
This is confusing. This is chaotic
institutions all these discussions and
then you ask at the end of the beer well
how are you even investing your money?
Are we still buying dollar assets?
Because dollar assets still offer great
returns again higher levels of yields
also in AI exposure. You don't get much
AI exposure if you invest only in
European stocks. You don't get much AI
exposure in Japan, Canada, and
Australia. So, the US offers things that
are simply not being offered by the rest
of the world.
>> I mean, quickly, John, you spent 12
hours on the set in London the day of
Brexit here. We're popping 138 on
sterling. Does your life change with a
143 sterling?
>> You're still convinced I get paid in
sterling?
>> I hope so. I mean, I'm looking at the
chart here and we're right up against
the range of
>> given the recent price action. I wish I
was funded in sterling, but given this
is my 10th year over here, I'm still
funded in dollars.
>> Your review is over.
>> Okay. Thank you, sir. Thank you, boss.
Let's get to Dian Swank of KPMG. She
joins us now. This news conference
starts in about seven or eight minutes
time. Dian, welcome to the program. What
are your questions for Chairman Pal when
this news conference starts?
Well, I think one of the questions that
hasn't been asked of the Fed is we've
heard the Fed talk about curbs on
immigration and its effect on the break
evens on unemployment and the labor
market more broadly. We have not heard
anything about the pockets of labor
shortages that are beginning to creep
up. The quit rate in leisure and
hospitality absolutely soared in
November and over the summer and that is
because of curbs in immigration. We know
that foreignb born and native born
workers in some professions most notably
in the service sector are compliments
not substitutes for each other and
that's something that we're watching
closely as well and even with the
productivity growth we've seen the AI
boom that's going on is currently with
that productivity growth not derailed
inflation and in fact it is adding to
inflation on the margin for insalient
prices for many consumers notably
electricity costs and then you have this
coal spell on top of it that added to
natural gas costs. But all of that is
still pushing up prices rather than down
when we're going to get a lot of fiscal
stimulus in the beginning of the year as
well.
>> Diane, your work recently has been
absolutely brilliant about the fabric of
employed America. What is the one thing
Wall Street consensus, the three zip
codes in Manhattan, what's the one thing
they get wrong about labor America?
Well, first of all, the overall
unemployment rate is not really a good
summary statistic right now. We know at
the end of the year, those having to
accept part-time instead of full-time
hit an all-time high. We're now at the
place where in the new millennium for
the last 25 years, we've seen instead of
multiple job holders falling as an
expansion goes longer, they're now
rising. This is part of that labor share
of income being eroded, the inequalities
we're seeing out there, and the frozen
state of the labor market where those
who have a job are clinging on and those
who do not have a job are left wanting,
I think is very important to understand.
When you think about things like the U6
measure of unemployment, which gets into
that sort of under the hood, that's
running around 8.4% 2.2%
above where it was in 2019. And I think
those are important issues.
>> Diane, quickly here, the model is that
the tech bro are taking over America.
We've talked about American
exceptionalism, but so many people just
want to turn around that ugly labor
share vector. How would you do that?
Well, it's a difficult thing to do and
certainly with the way that the seauite
and the gap between employees and the
seauite see AI and how it's affecting
productivity growth is another issue. We
could literally see a payroll recession
as the economy booms in 2026
and that is something that I never
expected to see out there. I think it's
really important to remember though that
we still have not ameliated inflation.
We still have inflation and it's much
like compounding stock returns that has
driven that wedge of wealth higher.
Compounding inflation over the last five
years has left prices out of reach for
too many. At the same time, the labor
market is frozen and that is why you're
seeing the consumer attitude surveys we
are.
>> And what are the consequences of the
K-shaped situation for the consumer from
a broad macro perspective? the weekly
the monthly retail sales data is still
reasonably okay. Does this matter later
this year or how do you think about the
K-shaped situation? Is it something that
the Fed should take to take into account
or or why does this matter from a macro
perspective?
It's really important from a macro
perspective because I think it's
providing a underlying floor um under
inflation and that's what I worry about
could happen that with fiscal stimulus
on top of it to temporarily disperse
economic gains at the beginning of the
year as we see those tax refunds come
in. That is important because you sort
of the sugar high could be very
short-lived if it only makes inflation
stick. And as I said, inflation's
already compounded to the place where
most Americans feel that things are out
of reach. And that underscores and
undercuts the Fed's inflation fighting
credibility.
>> Dan, I think we have to say, and I'm
sure you share this sentiment, if any of
us gets a tax refund is paying the
energy bill over the last month, Dan,
thank you. Dan Swank weighing in on the
Federal Reserve and a backdrop for the
economy. I think we just take a beat
with the two and a half minutes we have
left. what Dan Swang just said there
that we could have an economic boom
>> y
>> and a payrolls recession. Now I know
this sounds a little bit philosophical
but what on earth is a boom if we have a
payrolls recession? I I'm going to go
towards I think your question John is
brilliant. What she said was remarkable.
I I don't think I've ever heard that
ever. Ever. The bottom line is we have a
president who's prosecuting a neo
merkantilla strategy. You were weaned on
this ages and ages. great grandpa Slack
a million years ago as well. How do we
extract oursel from a neo mercantalist
strategy to get growth back in for the
rest of the public not benefiting from
this tech boom?
>> Well, the challenge of course is that
the AI boom has the main been the main
driver for so long. But if you implement
policies of course that ultimately says
that we want fewer goods and fewer
peoples to come into the country, the
risk is that that of course does come
delization with a risk of higher
inflation. risk of high inflation in
prices, risk of high inflation in wages.
So that's why if we this is not only the
US, this is also Europe, this is also
across the OCD area, you're seeing more
and more segmentation of the global
economy of course results in now
everything needs to be produced
domestically home shoring, unshoring,
reshoring, all that of course results
for fixed income investors in more
upside risk to inflation.
>> You just describe the 1930s in the
United Kingdom. Tom, the biggest risks
to the GDP growth we've discussed over
the last 12 months are the populist
remedies the White House might introduce
to try and correct the K. One of those
issues we've talked about for the last
few months, the last month or so has
been the introduction of a cap on
interest rates on credit cards. That
could have the complete opposite
intended effect of chilling financial
conditions, of tightening credit
availability. And they're the kind of
things at the moment, this
administration, TK, they're the kind of
things they're thinking about.
>> I think the phrase is grasping at
straws. I don't hear much policy or
science behind it. Maybe we'll hear that
in these comments.
>> Tston, this just in from Hugh Van
Steinus of Oliver Wyman. I'm sure you
know him. He wants us to start a podcast
and wants to know if Mark Rowan will
give up to them once a week so we can do
a little podcast together. He liked the
last hour so much.
>> First guest can be Hugh Vinc.
>> Do you think Mark and Jim will get on
board with that?
>> Can we have you once a week?
>> Can you write the check if we got a
budget in the surveillance?
>> Yeah, I can work it out.
>> We'll try and make that happen. Tossson,
this was a pleasure. Thank you, sir. To
SLO there of Apollo. This could be a
snoozer over the next 60 minutes. The
last 60 minutes has been anything but.
Equities right now very close to alltime
highs on the S&P 500. The S&P 500
negative by about 210 of 1% for the
chairman of the Federal Reserve. Let's
take a listen down in Washington DC.
>> Good afternoon.
Uh my colleagues and I remain squarely
focused on achieving our dual mandate
goals of maximum employment and stable
prices for the benefit of the American
people. The US economy expanded at a
solid pace last year and is coming into
2026 on a firm footing.
While job gains have remained low, the
unemployment rate has shown some signs
of stabilization and inflation remains
somewhat elevated.
In support of our goals today, the
Federal Open Market Committee decided to
leave our policy rate unchanged.
Having lowered our policy rate by 75
basis points over the course of our
previous three meetings, we see the
current stance of monetary policy as
appropriate to promote progress toward
both our maximum employment and 2%
inflation goals. I will have more to say
about monetary policy after briefly
reviewing economic developments.
Available indicators suggest that
economic activity has been expanding at
a solid pace. Consumer spending has been
resilient and business fixed investment
has continued to expand.
In contrast, activity in the housing
sector has remained weak.
The temporary shutdown of the federal
government likely weighed on economic
activity last quarter, but these effects
should be reversed as the reopening
boosts growth this quarter.
In the labor market, indicators suggest
that conditions may be stabilizing after
a period of gradual softening. The
unemployment rate was 4.4% in December
and has changed little in recent months.
Job gains have remained low. Total
non-farm payrolls declined at an average
pace of 22,000 per month over the last
three months. Excluding government
employment, private payrolls rose at an
average pace of 29,000 per month. A good
part of the slowing in the pace of job
growth over the past year reflects a
decline in the growth of the labor force
due to lower immigration and labor force
participation. Though labor demand has
clearly softened as well.
Other indicators including openings,
layoffs, hiring, and nominal wage growth
show little change in recent months.
Inflation has eased significantly from
its highs in mid 2022, but remains
somewhat elevated relative to our 2%
longerrun goal.
Estimates based on the consumer price
index indicate that total PCE prices
rose 2.9% over the 12 months ending in
December and that excluding the volatile
food and energy categories, core PCE
prices rose 3.0%.
These elevated readings largely reflect
inflation in the goods sector which has
been boosted by the effects of tariffs.
In contrast, disinflation appears to be
continuing in the services sector.
Near-term measures of inflation
expectations have declined from last
year's peaks as reflected in both market
and surveybased measures.
Most measures of longerterm expectations
remain consistent with our 2% inflation
goal.
Our monetary policy actions are guided
by our dual mandate to promote maximum
employment and stable prices for the
American people. At today's meeting, the
committee decided to maintain the target
range for the federal funds rate at 3
and a half to 3 and 3/4%.
Since last September, we've lowered our
policy rate 75 basis points or 3/4 of a
percentage point, bringing it within a
range of plausible estimates of neutral.
This normalization of our policy stance
should help stabilize the labor market
while allowing inflation to resume its
downward trend toward 2%. Once the
effects of tariff increases have passed
through,
we are well positioned to determine the
extent and timing of additional
adjustments to our policy rate based on
the incoming data, the evolving outlook,
and the balance of risks.
Monetary policy is not on a preset
course and we will make our decisions on
a meeting basis.
To conclude, the Fed has been assigned
two goals for monetary policy. Maximum
employment and stable prices. We remain
committed to supporting maximum
employment, bringing inflation
sustainably to our 2% goal, and keeping
longerterm inflation expectations well
anchored. Our success in delivering on
these goals matters to all Americans. We
at the Fed will continue to do our jobs
with objectivity, integrity, and a deep
commitment to serve the American people.
Thank you. I look forward to your
questions.
>> Hi,
Chris Rugabber at Associated Press.
Thank you. Um, I wanted to ask that, you
know, you attended the Supreme Court uh
hearing last week on the Lisa Cook case.
uh and Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
criticized that as political. Can you
say why you attended and uh what you
would say in response to the secretary's
criticism?
>> So, let me start with I I don't respond
to comments by other officials, whoever
they may be. It's just uh not
appropriate to do that. I will tell you
why I attended. Um I would say that that
case is perhaps the most important legal
case in the Fed's 113 year history. And
I as I thought about it, I thought uh it
would might be hard to explain why I
didn't attend. Uh in addition, um Paul
Vulker went to a Supreme Court case
famously in I guess 1985 or so. So it's
precedented and uh I thought it was an
appropriate thing and I did it.
>> Great. And then just quickly follow on
uh the job market. Uh
you mentioned last month that the
household survey might be distorted. Um
and you also mentioned the potential for
o uh overounting jobs uh which would
suggest that we're still in a negative
hiring pace. Um so do you see that drop
in the unemployment rate as solid and
uh I'm just what's the basis for saying
that things have stabilized? Thank you.
>> So yeah really two questions. One is so
we're we're getting through the the
distortions in the data from the
shutdown. what however big they were in
November, they're smaller in December.
So, we're getting to a place where
they're no longer material. They're
still there, but it's a tweak here and
there. Um, the reason why we why we
changed the uh statement, let me pull it
out. Um, u was was simply uh it's it
used to say that judges that downside
risks to employment rose in recent
months. So, we saw, you know, data
coming in which suggests some signs of
stabilization. I wouldn't go too far
with that but some signs of
stabilization. There also some signs of
continued cooling and uh so we thought
that was no longer an accurate
description of the data. In addition,
the outlook for economic activity has
improved clearly improved since the last
meeting and that should matter for for
labor demand and for employment over
time. So for those two reasons, we
thought we would take that language out
of the statement.
Nick
Nick Timos, the Wall Street Journal. Uh,
Chair Pal, you've generally avoided
engaging with political controversies
directly, and the video statement on
January 11th was a departure. What made
this different, and are you concerned it
could draw the institution further into
political debates?
>> So, today on uh uh I'm simply going to
refer you to the statement that I made
on January 11. I'm not going to expand
on it or repeat it. So, uh, I'm just not
going to this is really about the press
conference and and and, uh, the economy
and what we did today, but and some
ancillaries, but I'm not going to be
getting into that.
>> Can you say whether the Fed has
responded to the subpoenas?
>> I have nothing for you on that today.
>> Mike,
Michael McKe from Bloomberg Radio TV.
Have you made a decision and whether you
would remain as a governor of the
Federal Reserve? And if so, would you
tell us what it is? And if not, when
might we anticipate a decision?
>> Uh, no. And uh I really once again have
nothing for you on that today that
either.
>> Uh why why would you uh want to leave at
all under the circumstances? Again,
I uh I don't want to get into that's not
something I'm there's a time and place
for these questions and and uh but not
not something I'm going to be getting
into today. Thank you.
>> Thank you. Um Claire Jones, Financial
Times. Thanks a lot for for taking my
questions. Um, in another one that
might, you know,
>> lead to a similar answer, um,
>> we've seen quite big movements in the
dollar over recent days. What do you
think is driving the US currency lower
and have you been at all concerned just
by the extent of the volatility we've
seen this week? Thank you.
>> So, Claire, as you probably know, you
know, we we don't comment on the dollar
really. the administration, especially
the Treasury Department, has the job of
oversight over over the the currency and
so and exchange rates and all that. We
don't comment on that. It's not our not
our role. Um, so I have nothing for you.
>> But I mean, what's your view on the
market movements? I mean, what do you
think behind them? Is it asset managers
diversifying? Is it
>> Yeah, I just don't, you know, we don't
we don't talk about the dollar. We don't
talk about what moves it around. Um, I
it's just it's just not appropriate for
us to do so. really the Treasury
Department has that. It's their their
role, their Bailey Wick, and and we stay
off it. We do monetary policy and some
other things, but we don't we don't
comment on the dollar. Sorry,
>> Neil.
>> Hi, Chair Pal. Neil Irwin with Axios.
Um, obviously no SCP in this meeting,
but in light of the slight firming up of
the language around growth in the labor
market in the statement, should we
assume that the timeline for any further
rate cuts is pushed back compared to
what people might have thought in
December?
Well, first of all, if if you look at
the incoming data since the last
meeting, um clear improvement in the
outlook for growth. The the data have
come in and sentiment, the the beige
book, everything comes in suggesting
that this year starts off on a on a
solid footing for for growth. Uh
inflation performed about as expected
and as I mentioned, some of the labor
market data came in suggesting u you
know, were evidence of stabilization. So
it's overall a stronger forecast really
if that's your question. Um I'm not sure
I answered your question.
>> Uh but but in terms of uh timing or
pacing of any additional easing. So we
we haven't made um you know what what we
what we'd say about this was that after
this meeting after the three recent rate
cuts we're well positioned to address
the risks that we faith on face on both
sides of our dual mandate and we'll
continue to make our decisions meeting
by meeting uh based on the incoming data
the implications for and the
implications for and the outlook and the
balance of risks. Haven't made any
decisions about future meetings but you
know the economy is growing at a solid
pace. The unemployment rate has been
broadly stable and inflation remains
somewhat elevated. So, we'll be looking
to our goal variables and letting the
data light the way for us.
>> Steve
>> Steve Leman, CNBC, and sticking with
questions you might answer. Thank you.
Um,
uh,
you had previously, I believe, described
the current policy rate being at the
higher end of neutral. And if you look
at the longer run, the SCP and the
longer run rate, 16 of 19 officials are
actually below there on their long run.
Is the Fed still in a process of
bringing it down towards a middle range
of neutral? And what would it take to
get there?
>> So I the count I did was that four of
the 19 were at or above that. Maybe I
missed by one, but I thought I thought
it was four. Um, and if you look at the
um the dealer survey, it was 10 out of
58 where we're at or above. So, you're
right. It's it's it's the high higher
end of the range. What we say is it's
it's within the range of plausible
estimates. This is this is the higher
end of that range, but it's in so for
some people, they think it's it's
neutral. I think and many of my
colleagues think it's hard to look at
the incoming data and say that policy is
significantly restrictive at this time.
may be it may be sort of loosely neutral
or it may be somewhat restrictive. You
know, it's in the eye of the beholder
and of course no one knows with any
precision. Um so is that you had a
followup?
>> I get what you're saying, but um are
some officials have described the Fed
being in a a mode of bringing it down
eventually over time. Are you still in
that mode or is this a place to hang
out?
>> Yeah. No, I I I would say uh if you look
at the SCP from from December, you most
people had additional normalization, but
at the same time, we've done a lot of
the process of normalizing. A good piece
of it is done with 75 basis points and
before that 100. It's 175 basis points
we've cut since we began cutting in
September of 2024. So, you've moved now
to, you know, 3 point Fed funds is
running just a little below 3.65%.
Um, so you've moved a good way and we
think we're well positioned here to
watch how the economy performs, look at
the data. We're not making decisions
about future meetings, but we we do
think we're well positioned after those
three cuts to to let the data speak to
us.
>> Thank you, Chair Pal. Marquee from
Bloomberg News. Uh, to what extent did
the did the committee discuss the
possibility of cutting at this meeting
or in March? and how are you all
thinking about the conditions that would
merit another rate cut? Is there broad
agreement on the on the committee about
what it would take?
>> So there was broad support on the
committee for holding today broad I
would say including among non- voters.
So that's where that was. Of course some
people did want to cut and and and
dissented but committee pretty broadly
for for for holding today. Um we're not
trying to articulate, you know, a test
for what for when to next cut or whether
to cut at the next meeting. Um you know,
what we're saying is we're well
positioned uh as we make decisions
meeting by meeting, looking at the
incoming data, evolving outlook and all
that. And um you know, we're in a
position where um you know, we have to
we still have some tension between
employment and inflation, but it's less
than it was. I think that the upside
risks to inflation and the downside
risks to risks have probably both
diminished a bit. So u you know we'll be
looking at that. It's about how you
weigh uh the risks to the two goals and
and and how big those and quantify them.
And so there are different views on the
committee and you know we'll find our
way forward as the data evolve.
>> Thank you. Uh thank you Mr. Chairman.
Edward Lawrence from uh Fox Business.
Has the effects of tariffs um already
moved through the economy on prices?
>> A lot of it has. So basically uh there
are many different estimates and and
they're all highly uncertain, but most
of the overrun uh in goods prices is
from tariffs. And that's actually good
news because if it weren't from tariffs,
it might mean it's from demand. And and
you know that's that's a harder problem
to solve. We we do think tariffs are
likely to move through and be a one-time
price increase. So most of the overshoot
if you if you were to take that out,
you'd get and you would I mean inflation
core PC inflation is running just a bit
above 2% x the effects of tariffs on
goods. And the other good news is if you
look away from goods and look at
services, you do see ongoing
disinflation in in all the categories of
services. So that's a healthy
development. So that's what's going on.
The expectation is that we will see uh
the effects of um of tariffs flowing
through goods prices peaking and then
starting to come down assuming there are
no new major tariff increases that that
are begun. Uh and that's what we expect
to see over the course of this year. If
if we see that if the if we see that
that would be something that tells us uh
that we can we can loosen policy. Also,
if we see something that suggests that
the labor market is not stabilizing,
that in fact it's the downside risks
reemerge or or the data just get worse,
we'd have to look at both of those. We
have a two-sided mandate.
>> Oh, if I could, um, if President Trump
does pick a new Fed chairman before May,
um, what does that look like? How would
you work with that person? And what does
that transition period look like?
>> I don't have anything for you on that. I
you know it's will depend on on
Congress's actions and things I I can't
speculate on.
>> Howard
Howard Schne with Reuters. Thank you for
uh taking our questions. Um given the
changes in the statement and all you've
said so far, is it is it fair to
describe uh risks to your to both sides
of the mandate as roughly balanced right
now? And is the next move necessarily
down?
I'd say that
the the upside again the upside risks to
inflation and the downside risks to
risks to employment have diminished but
there they still exist. So there's still
some tension between the mandates. Are
they fully in balance? Uh hard to say.
Hard to say. And you know we we again we
think our policy is in a good place. Um,
I've just discussed reasons why we might
change our policy and, you know, we'll
just have to see how the data lead us.
>> I'm wondering you you you a minute ago
you said you felt expectations were
consistent with your with your mandate
that the two and the 10-year break evens
have moved quite notably in the last uh
couple of weeks I believe. Uh, is there
any concern on that front? I mean, the I
I recently looked at at all all of the
both survey and market-based short-term
inflation expectations have come way
down. You know, they they they were in a
good place at the beginning of last
year. They spiked around Liberation Day,
and now they fully retraced in the last
few months. So, that's very comforting.
And the longer term inflation
expectations have remained in places
that are, you know, very consistent with
2% inflation over time. So expectations
are have been solid and they they
reflect, you know, confidence in in the
return to 2% inflation.
>> Andrew,
>> apologies if this is a little bit
repetitive, but in the past you've said
that the reason you cut rates was that
the risk to the labor market was greater
than the risk to the inflation side. Is
that still true?
>> You know, we haven't made You're right.
We we uh we saw the labor market
weakening and we acted and I think
that's the appropriate thing to do. We
have you know we will always act to to
address what we see as uh the economy
moving away from our goals. Uh
risks to both of the variables are a
little less. I think that the upside
risk to inflation again a little bit
less and the downside risk to employment
a little less. Um,
I just would say that I I'm not making a
judgment about how, you know, one of
them is more at risk than the other,
just that the risks both to both of them
have have diminished.
>> Okay. Thanks. Um, BIS wrote a paper last
summer which concluded that global
investors were hedging their dollar
exposures in ways that previously they
they hadn't because of policy
uncertainty. Do you agree with BIS? We
really don't see much at all about that
that whole that whole story. There's
just not a lot of data that that
suggests that there's much to that.
>> Thanks, Anna.
>> Anna Swanson with the New York Times.
Um, can you talk more about what you
would need to see in the labor market to
conclude it's time to resume easing? Do
you need to see further deterioration uh
in the labor market or would it be
enough for inflation to soften? So we'll
always be looking at both things and so
there could be combinations, infinite
numbers of combinations that would cause
us to want to move. Certainly a
weakening labor market would be an
argument for loosening. But what's
happening with inflation if inflation
were at the same time getting worse, you
know, you just you just have a very
difficult situation there. So we'll be
looking at both. Clearly a weakening
labor market calls for cutting. A
stronger labor market says that that the
rate rates are in a good place. We'll
have to be making similar judgments too
on inflation though.
>> And if inflation does pick back up and
the labor market doesn't show further
signs of deterioration, is it there a
chance that you could raise rates rather
than simply remaining on hold? What
would you need to see to consider
hiking?
>> We don't we don't take things off the
table, but it isn't anybody's base case
right now, anybody's base case that the
next move will be a rate hike. But, you
know, ultimately we'll do we'll do what
we think is the right thing. But that's
that's not where people's expectations
are right now.
Victoria.
>> Hi, Victoria with Politico. Um, I I
wanted to ask, you've talked in the past
about concerns about the US fiscal
trajectory, and we've seen in the
Japanese bond market a lot of turmoil
recently, uh, in part due to concerns
over their their fiscal and and
long-term economic outlook. So, do you
worry that the US could at some point
find itself in a situ similar situation
to Japan, whether for fiscal or
demographic reasons? you know, over
time, you've seen that US rates have
remained pretty they haven't moved a lot
really for a while, but they haven't
moved a lot uh because of what's been
happening in Japan. Um, so it it's more
of an overtime thing. The US federal
budget deficit is, you know,
uncontroversially on an unsustainable
path. The level of debt is not
unsustainable. It's very much
sustainable, but the path is
unsustainable. And the sooner we work on
it, the better. But um you know right
now the we're running a very large
deficit at essentially full employment
and um so the fiscal picture needs to be
addressed and it's not really being
addressed. So uh that's important. I I
I'm not in any way connecting it to some
sort of near-term market event, but u
ultimately it's something we'll have to
deal with and that you know in the end
in the endgame that's that's where you
wind up is in some kind of a difficult
thing. But that's that's not where we
are. It's not what Japan is either. But
uh it's certainly not where we are right
now.
>> Does it reduce the effect of your rate
cuts that longer term rates have overall
not really budged that much?
>> I I wouldn't say that. You know the
thing is um I mean technically
higher longerterm rates means less
accommodated financial conditions. But
remember many many things move longer
term rates. It's not and it's not mostly
what happens on the short end. there can
be effects of longerterm rates from our
moving our policy around but you know
it's much more you know assessments of
the fiscal path and fiscal policies and
and risks and things like that that move
the tenure around. You can you can look
back at and find periods where we've
been very actively moving the the policy
rate and over the course of a year and
over the course of that year the tenure
is exactly where it started. So, it's
not there's not a tight link between,
you know, 10-year rates and and the
overnight rate.
>> Elizabeth,
>> thanks so much. Elizabeth Schelsey with
ABC News. Republican Senator Tom Tillis,
who sits on the Senate Banking
Committee, said he will block any Fed
nominee, including the chair, until this
investigation into you is resolved. Do
you support this move by the senator,
and what conversations have you had with
the senator?
>> I I've got nothing for you on that. More
broadly, what would happen to American
households if the Federal Reserve loses
its ability to operate independent from
politics?
>> So really the the point of of
independence is not to protect policy
makers or anything like that. It just is
that every advanced economy democracy in
the world has come around to this common
practice. It's just an institutional
arrangement that is that has served the
people well and that is to to have a
separation between uh to not have direct
elected official control over the
setting of monetary policy and the
reason is that monetary policy can be
used you know through an election cycle
to to affect the economy in a way that
will be politically worthwhile. So this
isn't I'm not talking about the US
context this is every advanced economy
democracy of any size. So it's a it's a
good practice. It's pretty much
everywhere among among countries that
look at all like the United States. And
I think if you lose that um it's first
of all it would be hard to restore the
credibility of the institution. If
people lose their faith that we're we're
we're making decisions,
you know, only on the basis of our of
our assessment of what's best for for
everyone for the for the wide public
rather than trying to benefit one group
or another. If if you lose that, it's
going to be hard to retain it. And we we
haven't lost it. I I don't believe we
will. I certainly hope we won't. But
it's very important. And the reason it's
important is that it's enabled central
banks generally not to be perfect, but
to serve the public well.
>> You're confident it can maintain that
independence at this point.
>> Yes. I mean, I'm strongly committed to
that and so are my colleagues.
Archie
>> Archie Hall from the economist on that
sort of stabilization of the labor
market question. How much do you see the
weakening we saw over the past 6 months
year as a kind of data mirage around
immigration and the government shutdown
and so on that's now resolved or how
much have we seen a kind of real
underlying firming up in the state of
the labor market do you think?
Well, part of it is to your point, part
of it just is that that uh labor supply,
growth in labor supply has come to
essentially a halt from a fairly fast uh
uh clip of growth over the last couple
of years driven by immigration and then
that the halt being driven by a very
sudden stop in immigration. So many
outcomes were possible with that. Um you
know, supply came way down. It turns out
that demand for labor also came down a
very similar amount, maybe just a little
bit more, which is why the unemployment
rate has gone up. So I don't know
whether that's a coincidence or not, but
that's that's what's happened with with
that part. But if you look at other um
uh things like for example the just to
pick a couple um the conference board's
measure of job availability that came
out I don't know was it yesterday or
today but uh you know it shows ser it's
a survey showing that that workers feel
like job availability is it's a very low
reading just one reading but it's an
indication of softening uh people
part-time for economic reasons uh which
is a category within the broader U6
category
measure um has moved up significantly.
So there there are lots of and I could
go on and on. There are lots of little
places that suggest that the labor
market has softened. Uh but part but
you're right part of payroll jobs
softening is that both the supply and
demand for labor has has come down.
Growth in those two have both have come
down. So that that makes it a difficult
time to read the labor market. Um you
know so imagine they both came down a
lot to the point where there is no job
growth.
Is that full employment? In a sense, it
is. If if demand and supply are in um
are are in balance, you know, that you
could say that's full employment. At the
same time, does it do we really feel
like that's that's a maximum employment
economy? Uh you know, it's a challenging
it's very challenging and quite unusual
situation.
>> Thanks. And and one more on growth and
the kind of strong growth outlook you're
strengthening growth outlook you're now
seeing. How much of that is the fiscal
stimulus we're seeing from the beautiful
bill, the tax cuts and and all of that?
>> So, you're seeing it already. You don't
have much of the fiscal I think the
outlook, you're right, it's it's
financial conditions and it's u it's
fiscal policy for 26. Um, but you've got
strong consumption that's been happening
before financial conditions have been
supportive, but before the fiscal uh uh
effects really are shown. So essentially
the economy has once again surprised us
with its strength not for the first
time. Uh and you know consumer spending
although it's you know it's uneven
across income categories but consumer
spending overall numbers are good and um
we're benefiting from the you know from
the AI buildout of data centers. That's
that's another thing we're benefiting
from. But economy overall growth is
growth is um is on a solid footing it
looks like. And and it's not just those
things. It's it's just the consumer's
the consumer is filling out, you know,
surveys that sound really negative and
then spending. So, there's been a
disconnect for some time between
downbeat surveys and, you know,
reasonably good spending data.
>> Thanks, Chair Pal. Christine Romans from
NBC News. You talked about how consumer
spending is uneven. The president calls
inflation defeated and solved. The FOMC
says it's a somewhat elevated inflation,
but you talked about those customer
survey or those some consumer sentiment
surveys and public opinion polls that
show that most families say the cost of
living is still issue number one. What
is the conversation around the table
with your colleagues about how wealthier
consumers seem to be driving so much of
the economy and why so many families
still feel like they just can't make
ends meet after 5 years of rising
prices? What is that discussion like?
>> So, a couple things. one, there's
something something to it in in that we
know that um higher income households
that tend to own real estate and tend to
own stocks, you know, securities and
those assets have been going up in value
and and you know, increases in wealth do
support spending over time. So, and
that's that's clearly a part of the
story. We also know that for some time
now, for you know, a year or more, we've
been hearing from u
retailers, for example, that serve lower
income customers, whether it be food or
the big box stores or anything. They're
they're saying the same thing, which is
our consumers are looking to economize.
They're they're trading down from brands
and they're buying less and changing
their buying habits and that kind of
thing. So we're seeing that and that
that's that is a reality of what we're
seeing. They're still consuming but but
um they're they're feeling it in a
different way. I would say more broadly
on affordability. We we you know we have
a vast network uh through the reserve
banks and also through the board of
governors where we talk to small and
large businesses and and households. And
so we do hear a lot about affordability
and we take we take that very seriously
and we take it to heart because you know
our job is one of our jobs is price
stability and so you know the the best
thing we can do for for people who are
feeling that squeeze is to keep
inflation under control and you know
frankly to finish the job of getting
inflation back down to 2%.
>> You mentioned the AI buildout as being
positive for economic growth this year.
I wonder as you look at the weakest year
last year for job creation of a
nonrecession year since like 2003, are
you concerned about AI maybe supplanting
more entrylevel work and entry level
jobs and how does that play into your
what you're watching about the labor
market?
>> You know, so everyone of course is
watching AI and the deployment and you
know trying to understand exactly what's
happening. Um and there's a wide range
of possibilities. It's it's hard to say.
We're and of course anyone who uses it
is amazed at at what it can accomplish,
right? So, uh, every every technological
wave will will eliminate some jobs and
and create other jobs. And it's always
been the case if you look back wave
after wave after wave. There will be
some disruption, but ultimately
technology uh increases productivity
which is the basis for rising wages. And
it may not all happen immediately but
over time it's what it's what enables
incomes to rise over time is rising
productivity. So will and we always ask
well this this is going to be different
you know is is it going to be different
and we we don't know um and we may in
any case see in the short term uh jobs
that are being eliminated by the
capabilities of AI we may see that um we
just don't know what the overall effect
is going to be. So how to think about it
in ter in macroeconomic terms it's very
hard you know we we can look at the
aggregate data uh we can we can analyze
for example the the there is some
connection it appears between the um low
hiring rate for recent college grads uh
and AI but it's not that the the main or
only driver. Um, you hear large
companies though saying many of them
saying that they either won't be hiring
for some time or that they're hiring
less or that they're laying people off
and they they tend to refer to AI uh
when they when they do that. So, we're
all watching and learning and it could
could certainly have pretty significant
effects on the economy, the workforce,
and our society. Um we don't really have
the tools to address the concerns that
may arise but we have a lot of people
who who focus on analyzing it and try to
try to understand what the macroeconomic
implications are which which is our job
>> thank you chair Powell Bey from AFP news
agency um you mentioned earlier that on
inflation the broad expectation was for
a onetime price increase and then for
inflation to come down and I was
wondering you know is your expectation
still for inflation to start cooling in
the second half of 2026 and you if you
could elaborate how far we are from
target currently. Thank you.
>> So how far we are from target is um as I
mentioned in my opening remarks we're we
had 3% 3.0% core PCE inflation over the
12 months ending in December and that's
pretty much what we had the year before.
So on net no progress, but the story
behind that is is modestly positive in
that most of the overshoot was in goods
prices which we think is related to
tariffs and ultimately we think those
will not result in inflation as opposed
to a one-time price increase. Okay. So
that's that's where where it is in terms
of you asked um so it no one thinks they
they will uh you know Xanti understand
really clearly precisely when this will
happen but there's an expectation that
sometime in the middle quarters of the
year we'll see um tariff inflation
topping out. So what we do is we when
when a tariff is put in place we track
the effect of those tariffs over a six
seven eight nine month period and you
can see and then you can see for that
tariff how long it takes to reach a
place where it's it's affected the price
level and that's it. So we're getting
better at that and and our estimate is
that it'll be sometime in the middle of
the year but I wouldn't look for great
precision in that but you know we'll be
able to see whether things are moving in
that direction. I think you know we'll
be able to see.
>> Richard Escob.
>> Thanks Chair Pal. I'm Richard Escobido
with CBS News. Um I want to look outside
the US about what's happening outside
our shores and how it impacts the US. Um
Canada's prime minister said last week
that there's been a rupture in the
global order and I wonder how you're
thinking about geopolitical risk as it
relates to the US economy. So I I can't
I can't comment on on that speech or
statement or anything like that. You
know geopolitical risk for us is a lot
of it is around um energy oil and so far
we haven't you know with all for all the
turmoil we really oil prices are have
come down as you know and and so we
don't really see much you know longer
than that uh it's trade and you know the
the trade uh the economy our economy has
has pulled through pretty well you'd
have to say given the very significant
changes in trade policy the US economy
has has pushed right through. Partly
that is that the the the way that what
was implemented was significantly less
than what what was announced at the
beginning. In addition, other countries
didn't retaliate. And in addition, a
good part of it hasn't been passed
through to consumers yet. It's being
it's being taken by companies that stand
between the consumer and the and the
exporter.
So that's where that is.
>> Jennifer,
>> thank you. chair pal Jennifer Shawn
Burgerer with Yahoo Finance. With third
quarter GDP growing at 4.4% and the
fourth quarter expected to have a five
handle on it uh as to what the Atlanta
Fed is predicting at a time when you had
a government shutdown and we thought
that was going to shave off some growth.
You've also got the fiscal tailwinds.
You've talked about big tax refunds
coming, potential tariff dividend. How
could you cut rates and not spur
inflation in that environment?
Well, um, we didn't cut rates today. Uh,
but, um, you know, it would dep it
depends on how fast potential output is
growing, right? I'm just ask ask in
principle. I'm not, you know, I'm not
saying this is what's happening, but you
know, there's growth and there's how
fast the potential is growing. And at a
time of of um, you know, high
productivity growth, potential output is
rising. So it really matters whe whether
um potential output is growing as fast
as actual output and and it would matter
over time. The numbers you cite were for
quarters and quarterly GDP is you you
need to look at 12 months because
quarterly G GDP can be very lumpy. You
know GDP was negative in the first
quarter last year. So the overall over
the year the numbers were nothing like
that. You know it was more in the mid
twos for the year. And how do you
explain the divide right now between
strong economic growth and the job
market? Is it productivity that's
filling the gap? And is productivity
being driven by AI at this point?
>> So we
there has been you're right there has
been a divide of solid growth but what
looked like a weakening labor market and
that can be explained by um by rising
productivity. But um I would say we we
do see signs of um certainly of the of
the unemployment rate stabilizing. So it
may be we're seeing the beginning of the
resolution of those two things. Also, as
you probably know, the the lore is that
when GDP and the labor market get into
an argument, in the end, uh labor market
is more the labor market data is more
reliable. GP data is is very hard to to
collect and understand. But nonetheless,
I think we we may be seeing that that
tension resolving a little bit. Too soon
to say with any uh confidence though.
>> Matt,
>> Matt Eaggan with CNN. Chair Powell,
after today, you have two meetings left
as Fed chair. You've obviously
experienced a lot during your time as
Fed chair, served under multiple
presidents. I'm wondering what advice
you have for whoever your successor
might be.
>> Honestly, I'd say a couple of things.
One is um
you know, stay out of elected politics.
Don't get pulled into elected politics.
Don't do it. And that that's another
thing. Another is um that you know our
window into democratic accountability is
Congress and it's not a passive burden
for us to go to Congress and talk to
people. It's an affirmative regular
obligation. If you want democratic
legitimacy, you earn it by your
interactions with the our elected
overseers. And so it's something you
need to work hard at. and I I have
worked hard at it. So, um and the last
thing is, you know, it's easy to it's
easy to criticize government
institutions so many ways. I will tell
whoever it is, you're about to meet the
most qualified group of people you you
not only have ever worked with, you will
ever work with. And when you meet Fed
staff, and not everybody's perfect, but
but there isn't a better cadre of
professionals more dedicated to the
public well-being than work at the Fed.
Thanks for that answer. U if I may
follow up, as I'm sure you've noticed,
gold and silver prices have experienced
historic gains of late, and I'm
wondering how much attention, if any,
you pay to those moves, and and what
message you may take from these uh
significant price increases we've seen
for precious metals. Don't don't take
much message macroeconomically. Um the
argument can be made, it's, you know,
that we're losing credibility or
something. It's simply not the case. If
you look if you look at where inflation
expectations are, our credibility is
right where it needs to be. So, we look
at those things. We don't we don't get
spun up over particular asset price
changes, although we do we do monitor
them, of course.
>> Nicole, for the last question,
>> hi Nicole, good barren. Some prominent
critics have charged that the Fed's
economic models are are somewhat
backwardlooking um but should be more
forward-looking, incorporating things
like productivity increases from AI. How
do you incorporate current and future
developments into your analysis and
decision-m and do you have a an answer
to those critics?
>> Yeah. So,
by and large, those criticisms
as somebody on the inside, they just
don't make sense. And I'll tell you why.
Every FOMC participant writes down a
forecast every quarter, right? The
summary of economic projections and
that's the basis for how we think about
the economy. So and the the other thing
is you know uh what an what an economic
model can do is it can grind up all the
data for the last number of years 50
years let's say and it can it can
identify what are the relationships
between variables A B C D and all that
kind of thing and it can tell you if you
change one of those variables this is
what should happen in the macroeconomy
it that's just the way it works however
the structure of the macroeconomy is
constantly changing for example we
hadn't had a pandemic in a 100 years. It
wasn't in the model and we knew it from
the very beginning. It was not in the
model. A trade war of this scope, we'd
never had that in, you know, in a
hundred years. And and so there's great
uncertainty at at uh at different
points. Um, another thing I'll say is,
uh, you know, when it comes to, uh, you
know, technological developments that
raise potential output, some kind of
technological renovation, you know,
revolution like like happened in the '9s
here and like maybe happening now with
AI, we're all over that. And, you know,
we everyone studies those periods and,
you know, we're very cleareyed about the
possibility that this higher
productivity may persist um, and also
that it may not. you know, we we we're
not no one's sitting here unaware of the
possibility of higher productivity.
We've been talking about it for three
years. It it long predates the current
situation. It's been going on for five
or six years. We've had productivity
higher. We've been talking about it that
whole time. So, it's very much on our
minds and we we are well well aware that
higher productivity means higher
potential output and it it changes the
way you think about potentially
inflation, growth, labor market and all
those things. That's all in our models.
I mean, if it's just a question of using
better models, bring them on. You know,
where are they? We'll take them. But I
think, you know, we we certainly are in
contact with anybody who does economic
modeling and and we're always looking to
do better at that. But that's that's how
I think about that.
>> And just a quick followup, we've been
talking a lot about tariffs and passing
through and we've been talking a lot
about them for the past few months. You
know, the trade landscape is still in a
constant state of flux. uh
announcements, threats, negotiations,
they're all frequently changing. So, I'm
wondering how you actually track these,
how what data channels are most critical
to follow this in real time.
>> Trade.
>> Yeah, the impact of tariffs and how
they're changing.
>> Yeah, I I think our staff has done a
really nice job on that and and they've
kind of put it together in real time.
So, as I mentioned, a tariff gets put in
place. You can pretty much track its
effects on pricing and on everything and
and so you build up build a model up
from all of the all of the tariffs. At
the beginning, it was very much of a
forecast. Now, it's it's every every
cycle that goes by, it becomes more
informed by actual data. And, you know,
we were we our forecasts were not far
off. Um what changed was as I think I
said earlier what changed was what was
implemented was smaller than what was
announced. In addition we didn't see
retaliation internationally and I think
people did generally expect that because
we saw that in the past and that really
mattered too. And then the other thing
is that pass through didn't know how
fast that was going to be to consumers.
Didn't know how much exporters would
take how much companies in the middle
would take and how much the consumer
would take. And it turns out it's a lot
of companies in the middle who by the
way are pretty strongly committed to
passing the rest of it through which is
one of the reasons why we need to keep
our eye on inflation and not declare
victory prematurely.
>> Thank you.
>> We're done.
>> Okay. Thank you very much.
>> The chairman of the Federal Reserve.
That did not sound like a skip. It felt
like a pause and maybe a very long pause
at the Federal Reserve. the beginning of
a walk into the sunset for the chairman
of the Federal Reserve. Jay Pal only has
two more of these meetings on the
calendar as the chairman of the world's
most important central bank. For the
equity market on the S&P 500, still
close to all-time highs on the S&P on
the NASDAQ 100 up by 0.5. In the bond
market on twos, tens, and 30s, we look
like this. Yields just about unchanged.
Your 10year 425, your 2-year 358.
Journalists did their best to make this
one interesting. Chairman Pal was
determined to make it boring. Take a
listen to what the chairman had to say.
>> Some people did want to cut and and and
dissented, but committee pretty broadly
for for for holding today. We still have
some tension between employment and
inflation, but it's less than it was. I
think that the upside risks to inflation
and the downside risks risks to have
probably both diminished a bit. So, u
you know, we'll be looking at that.
There are different views on the
committee and you know, we'll find our
way forward as the data evolve. TK, just
my takeaway, just my observation.
Towards the end, it felt like a man who
was looking forward to retiring and
stepping down.
>> You know, there was a gold question.
It's great. He doesn't have Krueger's in
the drawer. He's got the Jerry Garcia
commemorative gold coins in the drawer.
So, way looser. There's no qu no
question about that. But it was really
interesting to see the nuances of the
market away from the things we usually
quote uh folks to look at what seriously
what sterling was doing, the way euro
was vibrating in that. And I would
suggest they can go back and say, you
know, we got through that in one piece.
>> He's got some advice for the next Fed
chair. Stay out of politics. Stephanie
Roth of Wolf Research joins us now for
more. Stephanie, the questions loaded
with politics. He was not engaging. He
was not playing. What was the takeaway
for you?
>> Yeah, I think it's a a Fed that is
comfortable with the backdrop of data,
which I think is the right call. The
data seemed to be improving from here.
We actually think that it will continue
to get better. In which case, this will
certainly be the last cut under Chair
Powell. It will be there's no more cuts
under Chair Powell. He's done and he's I
think that's right. He's fading into the
sunset and just wants to avoid all of
the questions that he didn't really want
to answer.
>> Unfair question, but I can save it for
your morning note at Wolf Research.
Maybe maybe it'll help. You think Mark
Carney at Davos talking about uh the new
geometry of middle countries. You look
at the president neo mercantilism, the
president weak dollar. Did the Secretary
of Treasury save this press conference
by coming out hours before and sounding
like James Baker from another time and
place on strong dollar?
>> Yeah, I mean I last night it was getting
to be a little bit concerning when Trump
made the comments regarding his comfort
around the sharp drop in in the dollar
that we've seen that could also have
reverberations throughout the rest of
the market. So I think that is fair to
some extent. Powell clearly don't want
to comment on the dollar regardless but
there there was the the legitimate risk
and there still is that there could
become reverberations as the carry trade
unwinds but it seems Bessant is very
well aware of the aftermath of that.
>> Can I ask economic questions?
>> Please go for it. This is the
appropriate for Anna Wong has been great
on this as you have as well Stephanie
Roth where the idea the vector on goods
we take for granted is disinflation
that's turned around now we've got goods
moving up. We've got gold, commod,
copper, and all the other stuff John's
talking about. Do you just assume out
there somewhere after stimulus that
goods roll over again into some form of
disinflation even if service sector
stays with an inflationary tone?
>> Yeah, we're probably going to see a
backdrop where we we're likely to have
some some firm goods prices in the next
couple of months in the sense that one,
you tend to have there's some seasonal
issues in some of the data. You have
consumer stimulus that's going to hit
goods prices for the next quarter or so.
And then beyond that, you're going to
move to an environment where goods are
running at roughly 0% year-over-year and
then it's it's back to an environment
where it's all about the service sector.
>> Away from the politics of Washington,
one of the takeaways from that
particular news conference that I have
is something I've heard repeatedly from
a lot of Wall Street participants,
market participants, is that the data is
going to be better. It will improve. The
chairman saying overall it's a stronger
forecast than in December. The data
since the last meeting show clear growth
improvement and a lot of people think
that's going to continue because of the
tax refunds. How important are these tax
refunds going to be? Do you think people
are overly optimistic about the impact
this might have?
>> I think they will be positive for the
consumer, but this is a consumer that is
already doing fairly well. Spending was
has been fairly solid in the fourth
quarter and everyone's revised up their
GDP numbers uh in in the fourth quarter.
Q1 should be equally pretty solid. I
think the the main takeaway is that
yeah, maybe even you you do get a bit of
a bump in consumer spending. People will
spend the stimulus checks that come to
them. and that is the American consumer.
But then beyond that, this is an
environment where you're you have
positive momentum in the economy. So I
think it will be important that's
entirely fair, but it's also an an
economy that's performing a lot better
than many expected towards the back part
of the year. Last year when everyone was
concerned about the the health of the
consumer, which was
>> a journalist in the news conference
asked the question, why wouldn't that
lead to higher inflation given how in
some parts of this economy we are supply
constrained? What's the answer to that?
The answer is that you'll see some
sticky inflation through the first part
of the year, in which case the next Fed
chair is going to be in an environment
where inflation is running roughly 3%.
The economy is fairly firm and they're
going to be trying to cut interest rates
and they're probably going to have
trouble at first there. It's going to be
later in the year when inflation starts
to cool again. You lose a little bit of
that momentum where it becomes a little
bit easier of a conversation.
>> I haven't asked anyone this question. I
think it's it's fair to ask now after
this press conference. We talked about
and the president with great uh
negativity would talk about the Biden
stimulus. What does the Trump stimulus
actually look like into the midterm
elections?
>> Well, the you'll see certainly you'll
see that that that better consumer for
the first part of the year. It will fade
into the election period of time in
which case then the focus is going to
continue to be on affordability. So
that's that's that's the opposite of of
of stimulus from a sentiment
perspective. And this is going to be the
biggest challenge for the
administration. They're going to be
dealing with all year and they're going
to have a lot of trouble. They've been
throwing a lot of different things uh at
the wall to see what will stick and
there is not that much they can do.
>> There's nothing sticking right now. But
any given central bank, whether it's
it's um chairman Waller, Chairman
Mirren, whoever, Chairman Pharaoh, uh
whatever whatever we see with the
central bank, they've got to figure out
what will stick with half of America
flat on their back. What's the Wolf
Research plan for that? Besides a check
in the mail,
>> there's not that much can be done. The
the the one positive is not about
anything the administration can do. It
is a just a cyclical pickup in the
economy that will help at the margin for
a lot of the the bottom end of the K
who's been left out. They've been left
out for a whole reason.
>> This is what Orzag and and uh Posen are
saying is, you know, you get a pick up
in the economy, you get productivity,
and it pulls out people. I mean, that's
the reigning theory here, John, into
Labor Day and into the end of the year.
Just on the next Fed chair, this from
the Treasury Secretary in the last hour
or so speaking to Yahoo saying the pick
may come in a week or so. It just feels
like a rolling week at the moment. We're
waiting another week to get that Fed
chair pick. If you're just joining us,
we're live on Bloomberg TV and on
Bloomberg radio. A Fed rate decision
behind us. A decision to keep rates
unchanged after cutting at three
consecutive meetings. We did get some
disscent from two Fed governors, one
being Governor Waller, the other being
Governor Myron looking for a 25 basis
point reduction. Let's get to Michael
McKe who was in that news conference
with Chairman Pal. Mike, welcome back. I
give you an A for trying, a big A for
trying. What was your take away from the
chairman moments ago?
>> Well, I think we got the answer to
whether J. Pal would talk politics or
policy. He focused on policy. Tried to
stay away as much as possible from
politics. When I asked him and Nick
Timos from the Wall Street Journal asked
him and then he was asked about the
dollar. All three of us got sort of the
Seinfeld answer. No soup for you. He's
not going to talk about that issue right
now. In terms of uh policy, however, he
seemed to be a little bit stronger on
the outlook for the economy than his uh
feelings about what rates would be
doing. He didn't give us any indication
that rates would be going down, but he
didn't give us any indication that they
think they're at neutral. He suggested
we're at the high end of it, which would
leave you open to a rate cut if you were
able to. In other words, if inflation's
going down and uh unemployment calls for
it, but as Stephanie was saying,
inflation's going to stay elevated for a
while. So, it's going to be hard in the
remainder of Powell's term to have any
rate cuts. And it'd be hard for somebody
new coming in to get rate cuts right in
the beginning, even if, as Powell says,
they think that inflation x tariffs is
running just about 2% or a little above.
on the committee. Mike, there is still a
push for an interest rate reduction from
both Governor Myron and Governor Waller.
Mike, for the people that missed your
coverage a little bit earlier
immediately following the decision,
what's the rationale for that push from
those two governors on this FOMC?
>> Well, we know Myron has sort of been
ordered to descent. It's interesting
that he only desented for 25 basis
points this time instead of for 50.
Either he thinks they've gone far enough
or uh he didn't need to do 50 to keep
the president's favor. Uh for Chris
Waller, uh the the initial reaction I've
seen from just about everybody who has
written about it is that he's trying to
keep his place in line for a possible
promotion to Fed chair replacing Powell.
But I would imagine also that Waller uh
knowing him and get knowing his
reputation will probably come out on
Friday when the blackout lifts and give
us some sort of statement on the
economic reasons why he thinks a cut is
important at this time. It's a little
bit different situation now because the
unemployment rate has gone down.
Inflation is according to uh the Fed's
calculations which pal talked about
going to for the core PCE hit 3%. So
it's harder to make the case for a cut
at the moment. So it'll be interesting
to see what Waller has to say.
>> Mike McKe, thank you sir. Stay close.
We'll come back to you a little bit
later in the program. We talked about
this in the immediate aftermath of the
decision that descent from Governor
Waller for a 25 basis point reduction.
We heard from vice chair, former vice
chair Richard Clarida, from Torson Slock
of Apollo, essentially calling it unfair
to characterize this as a man purely
voting for reduction to keep his name in
the running to become the Fed chair.
Yeah,
>> that has been a man who's delivered
effective leadership, thought leadership
of the Federal Reserve and caught every
single turn of the economy over the last
several years.
>> Yeah, I I think Torston summed it up
nicely. This is a legit academic folks
uh with major credit out at Washington
State. He wrote a very important small
tiny perfect paper in 1991 I believe it
was. It made his reputation and it's on
game theory but accessible game theory
the you know besides he's like you. He's
cut and chiseled. He's lifting weights
every day.
>> I wish I lifted like he did. Have you
seen him deadlift?
>> Oh yeah.
>> It's it's Have you seen this video? It's
ridiculous. Yeah.
>> It's ridiculous how much weight he
lifts. But yes, please continue.
>> He's a legitimate guy. I mean, Ken Rogo
is a huge fan of what this academic has
done and he's delivered it. Here's the
key thing and I think attractive to the
president. He's done it in a plain
spoken way and that may be to the
benefit of President Trump.
>> I want to avoid the politics of this
Tom, but we've complained so much about
group think of the Federal Reserve. We
can't complain when someone sticks their
neck out and says we need to do
something different and this is why I
think we need to do this differently.
Risk come both ways and we've seen that
coming out of the pandemic. How wrong
the consensus has been.
>> Oh yeah. risk cut both ways.
>> It's a humility is an order and frankly
I heard that from Chairman Paul today.
>> Jeffrey Rosenberg of Black Rockck joins
us now to weigh in on all of this. Jeff,
welcome to the show, sir. The big
takeaway for you, unchanged and a
chairman who's not looking to change
things for the next several months.
Would you agree?
>> Yeah, I think the big takeaway on the
policy side uh was the removal of the
balance of risks from the labor market
assessment. He got asked that question.
I think the most interesting interchange
was in the very first question where he
very clearly laid out he wasn't going to
address the politics side and then and
got into the substance on the change of
the balance of risks and I think from
the economic perspective that was the
most interesting thing in acknowledging
that they moved away from both sides of
of the inflation and the labor market uh
tension that was there previously and
that's an upgrade to the assessment. I
think the near-term, you know,
implication is the bond market has the
pricing right that, you know, then in
the next six months, there's really no
real movement towards a cut. Now,
obviously, it depends on the data and
everything in terms of the expectations
for the FOMC is going to be in the back
half of the year.
>> Jeff Rosenberg, maybe more important in
the press conference is the American
exceptionalism at 402 Microsoft, 403
Tesla, 405 Meta, 408 IBM. Ani, thank you
so much for those times. I mean, what's
keeping this Fed going is this
exceptional America. How do they keep
that experiment going with their policy
given politics?
>> Yeah, that that's a really important
point, Tom, and it came up a little bit
in the press conference. You just had to
like listen for it. It's a point I've
made often, you know, in these
discussions that, you know, where is the
the surprise coming from? It's it's
coming from the consumption side. It's
being supported by the wealth effect and
the wealth effect is being supported by
all of those earnings and that AI story.
So, you know, we talk a lot about the
macroeconomic perspective here, but it's
really about the micro and the micro is
the AI and the technology story, the
concentration and it's flowing through
from the micro to the macro through the
wealth effect. And that was why most
economists are under clubbing growth in
2025. It may be again the story in 2026.
It's a little bit of the K-shaped
economy story as well because it's only
a small portion that are benefiting, but
that small portion overwhelmingly
is influencing that consumption.
>> Stephanie Roth, I look at that. I love
how uh Mr. Rosenberg goes to the wealth
effect as well. I want to frame out what
we talked to to Slack about real GDP
which is being buoyant by the wealth
effect maybe with a little bit of add-on
inflation. Where do you see nominal GDP
for the next chairman? John, we go out
two meetings then there's like one or
two or three meetings. October 29 is a
dead meeting because of the election.
Where's nominal Labor Dayish in America?
>> Yeah, you're going to be sitting
5% a little bit higher.
>> Wealth effect, John. That's what we call
this Rosenberg's right.
>> Yeah. I mean, and the and the wealth
effect has been really important for the
past couple years partially just because
it has broadened out beyond just the the
very wealthy. This this this is a a
consumer where younger people are
involved in equities. More people even
though they they don't have the the lion
share of the equities, they are still
more invested than many years past. So,
it's a it it's helping a big part of
America. Of course, not that bottom of
the K which just continues. And yet by
some measures by some measures
conference board consumer confidence
hasn't been lower in the last decade.
Explain.
>> Yeah. Conference board was was weaker.
Um was stronger. I think the net of the
two is a consumer that feels bad about
the their the price level in the economy
which is something that cannot be
changed easily by any means. But they're
largely employed and they they they
don't like the policy uncertainty. So
they're they continue to spend because
most of them are employed and continue
to make decent wage gains. They also
have the wealth they benefit from that
wealth effect. But when you ask them how
do you feel about the economy, it's
perhaps not great.
>> Or maybe four 5% nominal GDP is not what
it used to be. That it's not a lab as
labor intensive. That this growth is
coming from tech capex spend that not
changing the lives of everyday Americans
at least not now. Isn't that a good
explanation as to what's going on?
>> Yeah, I think that's part of it. They're
also concerned about the future
prospects because we all know AI is
going to have important impacts on the
labor market. You continue to see
headlines about job cuts. The thing is
that this part of the year there is
often headlines about job cuts and
everybody gets scared in January about
the labor market because they see all
these headlines and then it proves to be
not such a big problem.
>> Jeff Rosenberg, I'm sure you're aware of
Posen and Orzag's mapping out of a
higher inflation, a more resilient
inflation. What does your bond world do
if we get inflation resilience?
>> So a a big part of that Tom is in the
term premium right the Fed and what we
saw in 2025 was that the short end of
the yield curve shorter maturities were
very responsive to policy rates. It came
up in the press conference today in the
question about long-term interest rates
and Powell basically admitted that you
know longerterm interest rates are going
to be a function. He focused on the
fiscal policy uncertainty, but there's
more than that. There's real interest
rates. The whole other picture to AI is
an incredible shift in investment demand
that raises real interest rates. And the
inflation piece to your question, Tom,
is about inflation risk premia. And as
you move further out in time, there's
more time for that uncertainty for all
those reasons to to to affect inflation.
And the bond market impact is a steeper
yield curve reflective in nominal space
of of of greater inflation risk premium.
>> I mean I look at this Jeff and the
question of where we are and this goes
back to dollar analysis of the last
couple days is it's very nonlinear at
some point. If I looked you know to look
at the benchmark 10-year yield how close
are we to a point where you get
accelerative tendencies if we unwind
that would be lower bond prices higher
yield. Is it 10 beeps away? Is it 30
beeps away? Is it a fiction? It's just
out there somewhere.
>> Yeah. Again, it kind of came up in the
context of the recent volatility and
JGBs. You know, is there a nonlinear uh
event for the US bond market? Uh, you
know, it's a different market. It's much
bigger. It's much deeper. There's a lot
more impact in terms of price and
substitution effects that can happen. He
talked about it in terms of the fiscal
side. it you know the the the debt level
is sustainable but the path is
unsustainable at some point you know no
one really knows where that point is we
we used to talk about it in the context
of small open market economies around
100% 80% debt to GDP that's a very
different setup than for the US economy
and we don't really know I I I would I
think it's a much longer term process in
terms of building a risk premia slowly
and less of this kind of tipping point
argument We don't really know for the US
bond market what that will uh what that
will look like.
>> Jeff, I'll ask you a direct question. I
asked this to to Sllock of Apollo in the
last hour and he said no. Do you have a
decent understanding now of this Fed's
reaction function?
>> Um I mean I don't know if it's as as
clear as as no. I mean I think that they
shifted in the summer and Waller was
ahead of it with regards to the payroll
side, the labor market side.
uh they were validated in that shift by
the slowdown in the labor market and
they told us today that slowdown market
in the labor market is kind of
stabilized. So if you look at the
response function at least for
consistency they paused the cutting and
they appears to be justified by the
reduction in the downside risk to the
labor market. So to me that kind of
validates a little bit of what we
understand about their response function
of this current Fed that they are more
keyed in on the labor market risks than
they are on the growth side. And the
growth side is being upgraded at the
same time. You talked a little bit about
that. So I think we're still getting,
you know, some view into that response.
>> Well, let me put it another way. Let's
say growth picks up in the way that
Stephanie and Torson are looking for and
let's say inflation picks up alongside
that. Do you have an understanding of
what they will or won't do later this
year?
Well, he kind of answered that one as
well, at least from Powell's
perspective, is that no one has trying
to find my notes on this one. No one has
rate hikes uh in in the expectation. the
economics of an uptick in growth and an
uptick in inflation, you know, might
otherwise say that. But yes, in terms of
the response function, it's still
asymmetric here where they're looking,
you know, to be stable or maybe looking
for economic reasons to cut, but not
looking for uh an economic scenario
where they're raising interest rates.
>> And folks, I really want to say to have
Jeffrey Rosenberg here with Stephanie
Roth is important because they both
carry uh their day-to-day work with a
lot of humility. Where in your head is
the unemployment rate where everyone
involved goes oops it's not 4.6 6 4.7 or
that is there a Stephanie Roth
unemployment rate where the dialogue
radically changes if we get that
>> yeah if you start to shift towards 5%
then the the dynamics
>> good round number 5%
>> is that 5% now the same as it was a 5%
10 or 30 years ago I don't think it is
>> no I don't think so either
>> in what way describe describe to our
audiences here worldwide why a 5%
all-American unemployment right now uh
was you know 7% unemployment rate back
when
>> yeah it it's it's structurally shifted
down over time in which case
>> because the the labor market dynamics
have have have have changed materially
the econ the what keeps us in full
employment today
>> is is not the same as as as what we were
so therefore if we're sitting at
5% that's a that's a much riskier
environment than than what it would have
been
>> John you live this in Coventry with the
auto business in the United Kingdom. I
just watched of the the the destruction
of Eastman Kodak yesterday. Great
YouTube video. It's like walking through
my childhood. But that world is gone
when it was a 7% unemployment and now
we're walking around happy with a 5%
number.
>> Well, I think to build on that, Tom, I
think we have to confront a new risk.
You bring up the old manufacturing hubs,
the bases of say the United Kingdom and
for that matter Detroit here in the
United States. That's what globalization
did to manufacturing. And the risk now
that we have to confront in the west at
least is whether AI is going to do that
to services what globalization did to
manufacturing. Do you think it was a
brief acknowledgement there from the
chairman in that news conference just to
give a little nod to the prospect of a
reduction in jobs at least in the short
term because of this new technology?
Yeah, I think that's fair and I guess
that that is the risk in the future that
we end up with a structural shift higher
because before it was, you know, a
backdrop where
globalization and manufacturing helped
to sort of bring the economy into today
where a much more de developed economy
than than we were, you know, of course
then that's the risk that we see into
the future that you that we end up with
a structurally slightly higher
unemployment rate. But I'm not convinced
that it will end up being quite that. I
think there's an environment where you
end up with job gains as a result.
>> I think that's the problem being a
policy maker right now. I'm not
convinced of anything and I'm not sure
they are either. Things have changed. We
asked Bob Michael JP Morgan, your former
colleague, the question a little bit
earlier. What's more important for the
outlook for the economy now? The
spending numbers from these big names
that report in about 20 minutes time in
the next hour or the payrolls report
that we get every first Friday of the
month. and he's pointing to capex from
the major tech players in the United
States that has completely changed the
conversation. How do you set policy with
traditional macro indicators when what's
driving the economy right now is
something else.
>> So I think what's driving markets is of
course AI and that kind of is required
to continue moving ahead in order for
for the US economy to be okay. If tech
capbacks started to slow down materially
as a result of AI, the they there was a
for whatever reason they decided the
return on on that investment wasn't
quite as high, the US economy would
still be okay. We're not in a at a place
where AI is so ingrained and important
into the economy that if it were to that
if those dynamics were to change the
economy would be in big trouble. We
estimate that the domestic share of
capex uh is of AI related capex is at
one and a half% of GDP.
Housing is you know a little over three.
So it's not that ingrained yet. In a
couple of years, if this continues at
the pace, then the conversation is
different.
>> Jeff Rosenberg, let me ask you a
Stephanie Roth question. I think it it
fits in here fine. And and that is if
you look at the labor upset that's out
there, John and I are overwhelmed every
day with emails talking about fancy
people at Black Rockck and Wolf Research
talking about AI this AI that. When does
the central bank just have to address
with these two Americas? when do they
address two Americas?
>> Uh, it it's it's a great conversation.
It came up again in the in the press
conference and I think Powell did a
really nice job in in addressing what we
don't really know and we don't know what
that impact is is going to be. But he
also critically added this compon this
comment on this is not something that
Fed policy is well suited to. Right? So
if we want to address labor market
frictions and disruptions that's much
better suited to other government
policies than the broad cudgel of
monetary policy. I want to just come
back to your earlier conversation and
just make one other point that the
wealth effect that we were discussing
it's a double-edged sword. So while the
capex impact that Stephanie was talking
about well point well taken the wealth
effect if you were to have you know a
challenge to the valuations or concerns
or repricing the benefits that we've
seen can also you know turn into uh
headwinds and so we should just be kind
of aware of that fact of the AI micro
impact to the macro economy.
>> Jeeoff I just want to avoid the rent but
we have got a few more minutes. I get
frustrated when we say things like the
Fed can't do things about certain
situations when they've contributed to
them themselves. And I'm talking
specifically about say inequality and
the K-shaped economy. Jeeoff, haven't
they contributed to that problem?
>> Uh yeah, it's it's one of my favorite u
discussions and you know it goes back
you know Jonathan even the the comment
that I just made you know how does the
Fed address these things in their policy
framework? its financial conditions and
and and the Fed does affect financial
conditions and they are affected by
financial conditions and so you know
when the Fed made a policy choice back
in the GFC through the portfolio channel
to try to address the challenges of the
collapse in the housing market they kind
of pushed up into their transmission
mechanism toolkit
transmission through financial
conditions and so that's really the the
problem that we've been inheriting for
the last two decades uh and So yes, it
is something that they're part of. It's
it's part of Besson's, you know,
criticism in the gain of function and
it's part of the kind of, you know,
future potential for Fed policy review
of, you know, how do we how do we
extract or how does the institution
extract itself from those things at a at
a simple level, it's it's what should
the portfolio look like, what should the
holdings look like, should we still have
mortgages? And that's one example of how
you could, you know, change some of
those functions in a in in a new policy
setting. Rant over. That's the challenge
for the next guy. Jeff, it's good to see
you. Jeffrey Rosenberg there of Black
Rockck. Did you like that?
>> Yeah, it was great. He's practicing. I
could see him at the GKE.
>> Oh, can you?
>> Yeah, I could see
>> as a vice chair.
>> Well, not vice chair, but you know, a
good, you know,
>> just in case the other guy
>> a huge input becomes the chair.
>> Chairman Reer, I can just see it.
>> You think Chairman Reader takes Jeffrey
with him?
>> Takes him with him. Yeah,
>> possibly. Do you want to ask him? We'll
get him back.
>> Yeah, we'll see.
>> I don't think he'll engage in that
conversation.
>> I don't think he will.
>> Just got a sneaky feeling. Got some time
for a final word, Stephanie. Final word
for today and for monetary policy in the
outlook over the next several months
given we should at some point find out
who the next Fed chair is going to be.
>> Yes, I think we're in an environment
where certainly the Fed is no longer
cutting in the middle of the year. It's
going to be a tough one for the new
chair to to to really try to move policy
because inflation's be running at 3%.
Growth is going to be fairly solid. Our
view is that the labor market is start
going to start to improve so we'll see
job gains look even a little bit better.
the risk is the unemployment rate is
ticking down at least modestly.
>> In which case certainly I I I it's going
to be a very tough first couple of
meetings. Besset knows that which is
probably why he doesn't necessarily want
to take the job. But there's only so
much that the chair can do if he's in a
if he's in a Fed that's incredibly
divided.
>> Mike, real quick, the the the crew
looking for low rates, rate cuts, rate
cuts. John, you and I upset him. The
crew looking for no rate cuts, you and
I, we upset them.
There we go. That's a fantastic program.
Stephanie, appreciate your time.
Stephanie Roth there of Wolf Research.
Coming up, earnings from Meta and
Microsoft from New York City this
afternoon. Good afternoon. This was a
Fed special, a Fed on hold and maybe for
a little while from now.